And the young Fisherman passed in, and knelt down on the sweet-smelling
rushes of the floor, and cried to the Priest who was reading out of the
Holy Book and said to him, Father, I am in love with one of the
Sea-folk, and my soul hindereth me from having my desire.  Tell me how I
can send my soul away from me, for in truth I have no need of it.  Of
what value is my soul to me?  I cannot see it.  I may not touch it.  I do
not know it.
And the Priest beat his breast, and answered, Alack, alack, thou art
mad, or hast eaten of some poisonous herb, for the soul is the noblest
part of man, and was given to us by God that we should nobly use it.
There is no thing more precious than a human soul, nor any earthly thing
that can be weighed with it.  It is worth all the gold that is in the
world, and is more precious than the rubies of the kings.  Therefore, my
son, think not any more of this matter, for it is a sin that may not be
forgiven.  And as for the Sea-folk, they are lost, and they who would
traffic with them are lost also.  They are as the beasts of the field
that know not good from evil, and for them the Lord has not died.
The young Fishermans eyes filled with tears when he heard the bitter
words of the Priest, and he rose up from his knees and said to him,
Father, the Fauns live in the forest and are glad, and on the rocks sit
the Mermen with their harps of red gold.  Let me be as they are, I
beseech thee, for their days are as the days of flowers.  And as for my
soul, what doth my soul profit me, if it stand between me and the thing
that I love?
The love of the body is vile, cried the Priest, knitting his brows,
and vile and evil are the pagan things God suffers to wander through His
world.  Accursed be the Fauns of the woodland, and accursed be the
singers of the sea!  I have heard them at night-time, and they have
sought to lure me from my beads.  They tap at the window, and laugh.
They whisper into my ears the tale of their perilous joys.  They tempt me
with temptations, and when I would pray they make mouths at me.  They are
lost, I tell thee, they are lost.  For them there is no heaven nor hell,
and in neither shall they praise Gods name.
Father, cried the young Fisherman, thou knowest not what thou sayest.
Once in my net I snared the daughter of a King.  She is fairer than the
morning star, and whiter than the moon.  For her body I would give my
soul, and for her love I would surrender heaven.  Tell me what I ask of
thee, and let me go in peace.
