The ease this would bring to trade, the deliverance it would bring to the
merchants from the insults of goldsmiths, &c., and the honour it would
give to our management of public imposts, with the advantages to the
Custom House itself, and the utter destruction of extortion, would be
such as would give a due value to the bank, and make all mankind
acknowledge it to be a public good.  The grievance of exactions upon
merchants in this case is very great, and when I lay the blame on the
goldsmiths, because they are the principal people made use of in such
occasions, I include a great many other sorts of brokers and
money-jobbing artists, who all get a snip out of the merchant.  I myself
have known a goldsmith in Lombard Street lend a man L700 to pay the
customs of a hundred pipes of Spanish wines; the wines were made over to
him for security by bill of sale, and put into a cellar, of which the
goldsmith kept the key; the merchant was to pay L6 per cent. interest on
the bond, and to allow L10 percent. premium for advancing the money.
When he had the wines in possession the owner could not send his cooper
to look after them, but the goldsmiths man must attend all the while,
for which he would be paid 5s. a day.  If he brought a customer to see
them, the goldsmiths man must show them.  The money was lent for two
months.  He could not be admitted to sell or deliver a pipe of wine out
single, or two or three at a time, as he might have sold them; but on a
word or two spoken amiss to the goldsmith (or which he was pleased to
take so), he would have none sold but the whole parcel together.  By this
usage the goods lay on hand, and every month the money remained the
goldsmith demanded a guinea per cent. forbearance, besides the interest,
till at last by leakage, decay, and other accidents, the wines began to
lessen.  Then the goldsmith begins to tell the merchant he is afraid the
wines are not worth the money he has lent, and demands further security,
and in a little while, growing higher and rougher, he tells him he must
have his money.  The merchanttoo much at his mercy, because he cannot
provide the moneyis forced to consent to the sale; and the goods, being
reduced to seventy pipes soundwine and four unsound (the rest being sunk
for filling up), were sold for L13 per pipe the sound, and L3 the
unsound, which amounted to L922 together.
                                                  L         s.      d.
The coopers bill came to                           30  0       0
The cellarage a year and a half to                  18  0       0
Interests on the bond to                            63  0       0
The goldsmiths men for attendance                   8  0       0
Allowance for advance of the money and              74  0       0
forbearance
                                                   193       0       0
Principal money borrowed                           700       0       0
                                                   893       0       0
Due to the merchant                                 29       0       0
                                                   922       0       0
