The record of his mental wanderings is not quite so happy. Mr James has
an immense prestige as critic, but a certain sentence that occurred more
than once in his obituary notices made it doubtful whether this does not
merely mean that people have run their eyes over the titles of Mr James'
essays and have accepted the fact that he dealt with authors rarely read
by the British as a guarantee of their rareness of merit. That it should
be reverently remarked on that most solemn occasion that Flaubert was Mr
James' adored master, when he had written more than one exquisitely
feline essay to delicately convey what a fluke it was that this fellow
who panted under his phrase like a bricklayer under his hod should have
produced _Madame Bovary_, is just such an ironic happening as he would
have liked to be introduced into one of his humorous studies of the
literary life. Such intimations make one guess that the homage which
England loves to pay to the unread is responsible for half Mr James'
reputation as a critic; and probably he owed the other half to the
gratitude of his readers for a pleasure which is undoubtedly given by
his critical writings, but which nevertheless does not prove them great
criticism. It is true that _French Poets and Novelists_ are the best
reviews ever written, and that it is good to listen to the old author
gossiping in _Notes on Novelists_ (1914) about the authors he had known
long ago and to watch him tracing, with all his supreme genius for
detecting personality, the imprint of dead masters on the fading surface
of old work. But he is always entirely lacking in that necessary element
of great criticism, the capacity for universal reference. The eye that
judges a work of art should have surveyed the whole human field, so that
it can tell from what clay this precious thing was made, in what
craftsman's cot that trick of fashioning was learned, what natural
beauty suggested to the creative impulse this appropriate form, what
human institution helped or hindered its making. Of that general culture
Mr James was so deficient that he was capable of inserting in quite an
intelligent essay on Theophile Gautier this amazing sentence: "Even his
aesthetic principles are held with a good-humoured laxity that allows
him, for instance, to say in a hundred places the most delightfully
sympathetic and pictorial things about the romantic or Shakespearean
drama, and yet to describe a pedantically classical revival of the
_Antigone_ at Munich with the most ungrudging relish." And while this
ignorance was perpetually blinding him to the purpose of many fair
artistic structures his literary power was perpetually betraying him
into the graceful and forceful publication of his blindness. Long after
one has forgotten all the deliverances of critics with greater wisdom
but less craft of phrase, one remembers his extraordinary opinion that
Flaubert's _La Tentation de Saint Antoine_, that book which will appeal
in every generation to those who have been visited by the angel of
speculative thought, which is not only itself a beautiful growth but has
borne beautiful fruit in _Thais_, is merely "strange" and has no more
reference to life than the gimcrack Eastern Pavilion at an Exposition.
And he lacked, moreover, that necessary attribute of the good critic,
the power to bid bad authors to go to the devil. There are certain
Victorian works of art which, however much esteemed by the many, are no
more matter for criticism than a pair of elastic-sided boots; yet there
is a paper in _Essays in London_ (1893) in which Mr James talks of "the
numbers of sorts of distinction, the educated insight, the comprehensive
ardour of Mrs Humphry Ward...." It recalls that the art which he
privately cultivated was courtesy, but it suggests that his criticism
was bound to consist for the most part of just such pleasant footnotes
to the obvious as _Partial Portraits_ (1888) which, with the exception
of some interesting personal recollections of Turgeniev, tell us
nothing more startling than that de Maupassant wrote a hard prose and
that Daudet was a Provencal.
