However, I do not wish to dwell any further upon individual instances.
Personal experience is a most vicious and limited circle.  All that I
desire to point out is the general principle that Life imitates Art far
more than Art imitates Life, and I feel sure that if you think seriously
about it you will find that it is true.  Life holds the mirror up to Art,
and either reproduces some strange type imagined by painter or sculptor,
or realises in fact what has been dreamed in fiction.  Scientifically
speaking, the basis of lifethe energy of life, as Aristotle would call
itis simply the desire for expression, and Art is always presenting
various forms through which this expression can be attained.  Life seizes
on them and uses them, even if they be to her own hurt.  Young men have
committed suicide because Rolla did so, have died by their own hand
because by his own hand Werther died.  Think of what we owe to the
imitation of Christ, of what we owe to the imitation of Casar.
CYRIL.  The theory is certainly a very curious one, but to make it
complete you must show that Nature, no less than Life, is an imitation of
Art.  Are you prepared to prove that?
VIVIAN.  My dear fellow, I am prepared to prove anything.
CYRIL.  Nature follows the landscape painter, then, and takes her effects
from him?
VIVIAN.  Certainly.  Where, if not from the Impressionists, do we get
those wonderful brown fogs that come creeping down our streets, blurring
the gas-lamps and changing the houses into monstrous shadows?  To whom,
if not to them and their master, do we owe the lovely silver mists that
brood over our river, and turn to faint forms of fading grace curved
bridge and swaying barge?  The extraordinary change that has taken place
in the climate of London during the last ten years is entirely due to a
particular school of Art.  You smile.  Consider the matter from a
scientific or a metaphysical point of view, and you will find that I am
right.  For what is Nature?  Nature is no great mother who has borne us.
She is our creation.  It is in our brain that she quickens to life.
Things are because we see them, and what we see, and how we see it,
depends on the Arts that have influenced us.  To look at a thing is very
different from seeing a thing.  One does not see anything until one sees
its beauty.  Then, and then only, does it come into existence.  At
present, people see fogs, not because there are fogs, but because poets
and painters have taught them the mysterious loveliness of such effects.
There may have been fogs for centuries in London.  I dare say there were.
But no one saw them, and so we do not know anything about them.  They did
not exist till Art had invented them.  Now, it must be admitted, fogs are
carried to excess.  They have become the mere mannerism of a clique, and
the exaggerated realism of their method gives dull people bronchitis.
Where the cultured catch an effect, the uncultured catch cold.  And so,
let us be humane, and invite Art to turn her wonderful eyes elsewhere.
She has done so already, indeed.  That white quivering sunlight that one
sees now in France, with its strange blotches of mauve, and its restless
violet shadows, is her latest fancy, and, on the whole, Nature reproduces
it quite admirably.  Where she used to give us Corots and Daubignys, she
gives us now exquisite Monets and entrancing Pissaros.  Indeed there are
moments, rare, it is true, but still to be observed from time to time,
when Nature becomes absolutely modern.  Of course she is not always to be
relied upon.  The fact is that she is in this unfortunate position.  Art
creates an incomparable and unique effect, and, having done so, passes on
to other things.  Nature, upon the other hand, forgetting that imitation
can be made the sincerest form of insult, keeps on repeating this effect
until we all become absolutely wearied of it.  Nobody of any real
culture, for instance, ever talks nowadays about the beauty of a sunset.
Sunsets are quite old-fashioned.  They belong to the time when Turner was
the last note in art.  To admire them is a distinct sign of provincialism
of temperament.  Upon the other hand they go on.  Yesterday evening Mrs.
Arundel insisted on my going to the window, and looking at the glorious
sky, as she called it.  Of course I had to look at it.  She is one of
those absurdly pretty Philistines to whom one can deny nothing.  And what
was it?  It was simply a very second-rate Turner, a Turner of a bad
period, with all the painters worst faults exaggerated and
over-emphasised.  Of course, I am quite ready to admit that Life very
often commits the same error.  She produces her false Renés and her sham
Vautrins, just as Nature gives us, on one day a doubtful Cuyp, and on
another a more than questionable Rousseau.  Still, Nature irritates one
more when she does things of that kind.  It seems so stupid, so obvious,
so unnecessary.  A false Vautrin might be delightful.  A doubtful Cuyp is
unbearable.  However, I dont want to be too hard on Nature.  I wish the
Channel, especially at Hastings, did not look quite so often like a Henry
Moore, grey pearl with yellow lights, but then, when Art is more varied,
Nature will, no doubt, be more varied also.  That she imitates Art, I
dont think even her worst enemy would deny now.  It is the one thing
that keeps her in touch with civilised man.  But have I proved my theory
to your satisfaction?
