LADY WINDERMERE.  You neednt be afraid, Duchess, I never cry.
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Thats quite right, dear.  Crying is the refuge of
plain women but the ruin of pretty ones.  Agatha, darling!
LADY AGATHA.  [_Entering L._]  Yes, mamma.  [_Stands back of table L.C._]
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Come and bid good-bye to Lady Windermere, and thank
her for your charming visit.  [_Coming down again_.]  And by the way, I
must thank you for sending a card to Mr. Hopperhes that rich young
Australian people are taking such notice of just at present.  His father
made a great fortune by selling some kind of food in circular tinsmost
palatable, I believeI fancy it is the thing the servants always refuse
to eat.  But the son is quite interesting.  I think hes attracted by
dear Agathas clever talk.  Of course, we should be very sorry to lose
her, but I think that a mother who doesnt part with a daughter every
season has no real affection.  Were coming to-night, dear.  [PARKER
_opens C. doors_.]  And remember my advice, take the poor fellow out of
town at once, it is the only thing to do.  Good-bye, once more; come,
Agatha.
                                 [_Exeunt_ DUCHESS _and_ LADY AGATHA _C._]
LADY WINDERMERE.  How horrible!  I understand now what Lord Darlington
meant by the imaginary instance of the couple not two years married.  Oh!
it cant be trueshe spoke of enormous sums of money paid to this woman.
I know where Arthur keeps his bank bookin one of the drawers of that
desk.  I might find out by that.  I _will_ find out.  [_Opens drawer_.]
No, it is some hideous mistake.  [_Rises and goes C._]  Some silly
scandal!  He loves _me_!  He loves _me_!  But why should I not look?  I
am his wife, I have a right to look!  [_Returns to bureau_, _takes out
book and examines it page by page_, _smiles and gives a sigh of relief_.]
I knew it! there is not a word of truth in this stupid story.  [_Puts
book back in dranver_.  _As the does so_, _starts and takes out another
book_.]  A second bookprivatelocked!  [_Tries to open it_, _but fails_.
_Sees paper knife on bureau_, _and with it cuts cover from book_.
_Begins to start at the first page_.]  Mrs. ErlynneL600Mrs.
ErlynneL700Mrs. ErlynneL400.  Oh! it is true!  It is true!  How
horrible!  [_Throws book on floor_.]
                                            [_Enter_ LORD WINDERMERE _C._]
LORD WINDERMERE.  Well, dear, has the fan been sent home yet?  [_Going
R.C._  _Sees book_.]  Margaret, you have cut open my bank book.  You have
no right to do such a thing!
LADY WINDERMERE.  You think it wrong that you are found out, dont you?
LORD WINDERMERE.  I think it wrong that a wife should spy on her husband.
LADY WINDERMERE.  I did not spy on you.  I never knew of this womans
existence till half an hour ago.  Some one who pitied me was kind enough
to tell me what every one in London knows alreadyyour daily visits to
Curzon Street, your mad infatuation, the monstrous sums of money you
squander on this infamous woman!  [_Crossing L._]
