The other Giant appeared to be entirely of this opinion, for during the
foregoing rhapsody of his fellow-sentinel he had been scratching his head
with an air of comical uneasiness, or rather with an air that would have
been very comical if he had been a dwarf or an ordinary-sized man.  He
winked too, and though it could not be doubted for a moment that he
winked to himself, still he certainly cocked his enormous eye towards the
gallery where the listener was concealed.  Nor was this all, for he
gaped; and when he gaped, Joe was horribly reminded of the popular
prejudice on the subject of giants, and of their fabled power of smelling
out Englishmen, however closely concealed.
His alarm was such that he nearly swooned, and it was some little time
before his power of sight or hearing was restored.  When he recovered he
found that the elder Giant was pressing the younger to commence the
Chronicles, and that the latter was endeavouring to excuse himself on the
ground that the night was far spent, and it would be better to wait until
the next.  Well assured by this that he was certainly about to begin
directly, the listener collected his faculties by a great effort, and
distinctly heard Magog express himself to the following effect:
                                * * * * *
In the sixteenth century and in the reign of Queen Elizabeth of glorious
memory (albeit her golden days are sadly rusted with blood), there lived
in the city of London a bold young prentice who loved his masters
daughter.  There were no doubt within the walls a great many prentices
in this condition, but I speak of only one, and his name was Hugh Graham.
This Hugh was apprenticed to an honest Bowyer who dwelt in the ward of
Cheype, and was rumoured to possess great wealth.  Rumour was quite as
infallible in those days as at the present time, but it happened then as
now to be sometimes right by accident.  It stumbled upon the truth when
it gave the old Bowyer a mint of money.  His trade had been a profitable
one in the time of King Henry the Eighth, who encouraged English archery
to the utmost, and he had been prudent and discreet.  Thus it came to
pass that Mistress Alice, his only daughter, was the richest heiress in
all his wealthy ward.  Young Hugh had often maintained with staff and
cudgel that she was the handsomest.  To do him justice, I believe she
was.
If he could have gained the heart of pretty Mistress Alice by knocking
this conviction into stubborn peoples heads, Hugh would have had no
cause to fear.  But though the Bowyers daughter smiled in secret to hear
of his doughty deeds for her sake, and though her little waiting-woman
reported all her smiles (and many more) to Hugh, and though he was at a
vast expense in kisses and small coin to recompense her fidelity, he made
no progress in his love.  He durst not whisper it to Mistress Alice save
on sure encouragement, and that she never gave him.  A glance of her dark
eye as she sat at the door on a summers evening after prayer-time, while
he and the neighbouring prentices exercised themselves in the street
with blunted sword and buckler, would fire Hughs blood so that none
could stand before him; but then she glanced at others quite as kindly as
on him, and where was the use of cracking crowns if Mistress Alice smiled
upon the cracked as well as on the cracker?
