One night in Mayit was her birthnight, and twenty years since she had
left her homeHugh Graham sat in the room she had hallowed in his boyish
days.  He was now a gray-haired man, though still in the prime of life.
Old thoughts had borne him company for many hours, and the chamber had
gradually grown quite dark, when he was roused by a low knocking at the
outer door.
He hastened down, and opening it saw by the light of a lamp which he had
seized upon the way, a female figure crouching in the portal.  It hurried
swiftly past him and glided up the stairs.  He looked for pursuers.
There were none in sight.  No, not one.
He was inclined to think it a vision of his own brain, when suddenly a
vague suspicion of the truth flashed upon his mind.  He barred the door,
and hastened wildly back.  Yes, there she was,there, in the chamber he
had quitted,there in her old innocent, happy home, so changed that none
but he could trace one gleam of what she had been,there upon her
knees,with her hands clasped in agony and shame before her burning face.
My God, my God! she cried, now strike me dead!  Though I have brought
death and shame and sorrow on this roof, O, let me die at home in mercy!
There was no tear upon her face then, but she trembled and glanced round
the chamber.  Everything was in its old place.  Her bed looked as if she
had risen from it but that morning.  The sight of these familiar objects,
marking the dear remembrance in which she had been held, and the blight
she had brought upon herself, was more than the womans better nature
that had carried her there could bear.  She wept and fell upon the
ground.
A rumour was spread about, in a few days time, that the Bowyers cruel
daughter had come home, and that Master Graham had given her lodging in
his house.  It was rumoured too that he had resigned her fortune, in
order that she might bestow it in acts of charity, and that he had vowed
to guard her in her solitude, but that they were never to see each other
more.  These rumours greatly incensed all virtuous wives and daughters in
the ward, especially when they appeared to receive some corroboration
from the circumstance of Master Graham taking up his abode in another
tenement hard by.  The estimation in which he was held, however, forbade
any questioning on the subject; and as the Bowyers house was close shut
up, and nobody came forth when public shows and festivities were in
progress, or to flaunt in the public walks, or to buy new fashions at the
mercers booths, all the well-conducted females agreed among themselves
that there could be no woman there.
These reports had scarcely died away when the wonder of every good
citizen, male and female, was utterly absorbed and swallowed up by a
Royal Proclamation, in which her Majesty, strongly censuring the practice
of wearing long Spanish rapiers of preposterous length (as being a
bullying and swaggering custom, tending to bloodshed and public
disorder), commanded that on a particular day therein named, certain
grave citizens should repair to the city gates, and there, in public,
break all rapiers worn or carried by persons claiming admission, that
exceeded, though it were only by a quarter of an inch, three standard
feet in length.
