When an Army is not upon Action, the Camp is a tedious Place to spend a
Mans time in; but we, who are Subjects of _Great Britain_, had some
additional Circumstances to make our Time lie heavy upon our Hands; For
my own part, I always look'd upon my self as a banish'd Man, and my
Thoughts always look'd homeward. There are a great many Charms in some
sort of Delusions, especially, if they flatter Inclination. It was now
almost grown into a settled Opinion with me, that _France_ would never
make any farther Attempt to restore King _James_, than by way of
Amusement, to drive on some other Project; and yet upon the least
Intimation of a Descent, my Inclinations willingly carry'd me over to
another Belief: And of this my wavering Temper I soon after gave a very
remarkable Instance. My Brother-in-law inform'd me by Letter from
_Paris_, that there was a deep Design laid to make us all Happy in a
little Time, so he advised me to make what haste I could, for that now
the Sea was dividing, and the Children of _Israel_ were upon their
march to the _Land of Promise_. Immediately I answer'd the Summons, and
gave into the Advice by taking Post, and had the Satisfaction to Sup
with my Brother in five Days time. The very next Day I went to St.
_Germains_, where I was glad to find every thing in such forwardness.
The King was preparing himself to go to _Callis_, where a considerable
Body of Men were Rendevouzing, as 'twas generally believ'd, in order to
be transported into _England_; where in and about _London_, several
Persons were privately engag'd, and ready with Arms to receive the King
at Landing. In the Town of St. _Germains_, several Persons dispos'd of
their Lodgings and Furniture and turn'd them into Money for this
Expedition. The Day came that the King was to take leave of the Queen,
and here I was resolv'd to play the Physiogminist, and observe in their
Countenances, whether I cou'd see any thing that look'd like a Descent,
for I did not think it improbable, but the King by this time might be so
far habituated to the _French_ Politicks, as to concur to be made a Fool
of, and I was not the only one of that Opinion, that the King himself
was let into the Secret, and knew very well his Journey to _Callis_; and
hovering about the Coast, was only to keep back ten Thousand _English_
and _Scotch_, whose Presence, that Campaign, would have done the
_French_ no kindness in _Flanders_. An old Project; and thus much I read
both in the King and Queen's Face, for neither at parting, nor
afterwards, did the Queen signify that Disturbance which she could not
have conceal'd, had the Project been real. I need not give the Reader
any farther Account of this Matter for it shewed it self upon the Kings
returning to St. _Germains_. Had this Design been attended with no worse
Circumstances than harassing a Monarch, and fooling his Subjects at
_Paris_, and St. _Germains_, it might here be regarded as an Innocent
stroke of Politicks, though very disobliging and improper; but if we
look on the other side the Channel, it had occasion'd very Cruel and
Barbarous Consequences. Those unfortunate Gentlemen who went upon the
Strength of this sham Project to raise Men, provide Arms and Horses, and
attempt seizing of King _William_'s Person, are dear Instances of
_French_ Policy; for 'tis not to be suppos'd that _Church, King_, Sir
_William Perkins_, Sir _John Friend_, Sir _John Fenwick_, or half a
hundred of their Adherents, wou'd either have attempted the Conquering
of three Kingdoms, or been discover'd by any of the Confederacy, had not
the _French_ both encourag'd 'em and left 'em in the lurch.
