Several Causes, I remember, were assign'd for this Miscarriage, as they
call'd it; Some there were who were willing to lay it upon the _Dutch_;
and alledge a Saying of one of their Generals, who receiving Orders to
relieve some _English_ and _Scotch_ that were over-power'd, was heard to
say, _Dam 'em, since they love Fighting let 'em have their Bellies
full_. But I should rather impute the Disappointment to the great Loss
of so many of our bravest Officers at the very first Onset. General
_Mackay_, Colonel _Lanier_, the Earl of _Angus_, with both his
Field-Officers, Sir _Robert Douglas_, Colonel _Hodges_, and many others
falling, it was enough to put a very considerable Army into Confusion. I
remember one particular Action of Sir _Robert Douglas_, that I should
think my self to blame should I omit: Seeing his Colours on the other
Side the Hedge, in the Hands of the Enemy, he leap'd over, slew the
Officer that had them, and then threw them over the Hedge to his
Company; redeeming his Colours at the Expense of his Life. Thus the
_Scotch_ Commander improv'd upon the _Roman_ General; for the brave
_Posthumius_ cast his Standard in the Middle of the Enemy for his
Soldiers to retrieve, but _Douglas_ retriev'd his from the Middle of the
Enemy, without any Assistance, and cast it back to his Soldiers to
retain, after he had so bravely rescued it out of the Hands of the
Enemy.
From hence our Regiment receiv'd Orders to march to _Dixmuyd_, where we
lay some time employ'd in fortifying that Place. While we were there, I
had one Morning stedfastly fix'd my Eyes upon some Ducks, that were
swimming in a large Water before me; when all on a sudden, in the Midst
of a perfect Calm, I observ'd such a strange and strong Agitation in the
Waters, that prodigiously surpriz'd me. I was at the same Moment seiz'd
with such a Giddiness in my Head, that, for a Minute or two, I was
scarce sensible, and had much a-do to keep on my Legs. I had never felt
any thing of an Earthquake before, which, as I soon after understood
from others, this was; and it left, indeed, very apparent Marks of its
Force in a great Rent in the Body of the great Church, which remains to
this Day.
Having brought the intended Fortifications into some tolerable Order, we
receiv'd a Command out of hand to reimbarque for _England_. And, upon
our Landing, Directions met us to march for _Ipswich_, where we had our
Quarters all that Winter. From thence we were order'd up to _London_, to
do Duty in the _Tower_. I had not been there long, before an Accident
happen'd, as little to be accounted for, without a divine Providence, as
some would make that Providence to be, that only can account for it.
There was at that Time, as I was assur'd by my Lord _Lucas_, Constable
of it, upwards of twenty Thousand Barrels of Gun-powder, in that they
call the _White-Tower_, when all at once the middle Flooring did not
only give way, or shrink, but fell flat down upon other Barrels of
Powder, together with many of the same combustible Matter which had been
placed upon it. It was a Providence strangely neglected at that Time,
and hardly thought of since; But let any considerate Man consult the
Consequences, if it had taken fire; perhaps to the Destruction of the
whole City, or, at least, as far as the _Bridge_ and Parts adjacent. Let
his Thoughts proceed to examine, why, or how, in that precipitate Fall,
not one Nail, nor one Piece of Iron, in that large Fabrick, should
afford one little Spark to enflame that Mass of sulphurous Matter it was
loaded with; and if he is at a loss to find a Providence, I fear his
Friends will be more at a loss to find his Understanding. But the
Battle of _Landen_ happening while our Regiment was here on Duty, we
were soon remov'd to our Satisfaction from that pacifick Station, to one
more active in _Flanders_.
