The false Attack on _Wyck_ was accordingly made, which, as propos'd,
drew the Main of the Garrison of _Maestrich_ to its Defence, and the
Boat so furnish'd fell down the River as projected, but unfortunately,
before it could reach the Arch, from the Darkness of the Night, running
upon a Shoal, it could not be got off; for which Reason the Men in the
Boat were glad to make a hasty Escape for fear of being discovered; as
the Boat was, next Morning; and the whole Design laid open.
This Stratagem thus miscarrying, all Things were immediately got ready
for a general Storm, at the main Breach in the Town; and the rather,
because the Prince of _Orange_ had receiv'd incontestable Intelligence,
That Duke _Schomberg_, at the Head of the _French_ Army, was in full
march to relieve the Place. But before every Thing could be rightly got
ready for the intended Storm (though some there were who pretended to
say, that a Dispute rais'd by the _Spaniards_ with the _Dutch_, about
the Propriety of the Town, when taken, was the Cause of that Delay) we
heard at some distance several Guns fir'd as Signals of Relief; upon
which we precipitately, and, as most imagin'd, shamefully drew off from
before the Place, and join'd the grand Army under Prince _Waldeck_. But
it was Matter of yet greater Surprize to most on the Spot, that when the
Armies were so joyn'd, we did not stay to offer the Enemy Battle. The
well known Courage of the Prince, then Generalissimo, was so far from
solving this Riddle, that it rather puzzled all who thought of it;
however, the prevailing Opinion was, that it was occasion'd by some
great Misunderstanding between the _Spaniards_ and the _Dutch_. And
Experience will evince, that this was not the only Disappointment of
that Nature, occasion'd by imperfect Understandings.
Besides the Number of common Soldiers slain in this Attack, which was
not inconsiderable, we lost here the brave _Rhingrave_, a Person much
lamented on account of his many other excellent Qualifications, as well
as that of a General. Colonel _Ralph Widdrington_, and Colonel _Doleman_
(who had not enjoy'd _Widdrington's_ Commission above a Fortnight).
Captain _Douglas_, Captain _Barnwell_, and Captain _Lee_, were of the
Slain among the _English_; who, indeed, had born the whole brunt of the
Attack upon the _Dauphin_'s Bastion.
I remember the Prince of _Orange_, during the Siege, receiv'd a Shot
through his Arm; which giving an immediate Alarm to the Troops under his
Command, he took his Hat off his Head with the wounded Arm, and smiling,
wav'd it, to shew them there was no danger. Thus, after the most gallant
Defence against the most couragious Onsets, ended the Siege of
_Maestrich_; and with it all that was material that Campaign.
Early in the Spring, in the Year 1677, the _French_ Army, under the Duke
of _Orleans_, besieged at once, both _Cambray_ and _Saint Omers_. This
last the Prince of _Orange_ seem'd very intent and resolute to relieve.
In order to which, well knowing by sad Experience, it would be to little
purpose to wait the majestick Motions of the _Spaniards_, that Prince
got together what Forces he could, all in _Dutch_ Pay, and marching
forward with all speed, resolv'd, even at the Hazard of a Battle, to
attempt the Raising the Siege. Upon his appearing the Duke of _Orleans_,
to whose particular Conduct the Care of that Siege was committed, drew
off from before the Place, leaving scarce enough of his Men to defend
the Trenches. The Prince was under the Necessity of marching his Forces
over a Morass; and the Duke, well knowing it, took care to attack him
near _Mont Cassel_, before half his little Army were got over. The
Dispute was very sharp, but the Prince being much out number'd, and his
Troops not able, by the Straitness of the Passage, to engage all at
once, was oblig'd at last to retreat, which he did in pretty good Order.
I remember the _Dutch_ Troops did not all alike do their Duty; and the
Prince seeing one of the Officers on his fullest speed, call'd to him
over and over to halt; which the Officer in too must haste to obey, the
Prince gave him a Slash over the Face, saying, _By this Mark I shall
know you another Time_. Soon after this Retreat of the Prince, Saint
_Omers_ was surrender'd.
