Passing through the court-yard, among groups of idle soldiers, we turned
off by a gate, which this She-Goblin unlocked for our admission, and
locked again behind us: and entered a narrow court, rendered narrower by
fallen stones and heaps of rubbish; part of it choking up the mouth of a
ruined subterranean passage, that once communicated (or is said to have
done so) with another castle on the opposite bank of the river.  Close to
this court-yard is a dungeonwe stood within it, in another minutein the
dismal tower _des oubliettes_, where Rienzi was imprisoned, fastened by
an iron chain to the very wall that stands there now, but shut out from
the sky which now looks down into it.  A few steps brought us to the
Cachots, in which the prisoners of the Inquisition were confined for
forty-eight hours after their capture, without food or drink, that their
constancy might be shaken, even before they were confronted with their
gloomy judges.  The day has not got in there yet.  They are still small
cells, shut in by four unyielding, close, hard walls; still profoundly
dark; still massively doored and fastened, as of old.
Goblin, looking back as I have described, went softly on, into a vaulted
chamber, now used as a store-room: once the chapel of the Holy Office.
The place where the tribunal sat, was plain.  The platform might have
been removed but yesterday.  Conceive the parable of the Good Samaritan
having been painted on the wall of one of these Inquisition chambers!
But it was, and may be traced there yet.
High up in the jealous wall, are niches where the faltering replies of
the accused were heard and noted down.  Many of them had been brought out
of the very cell we had just looked into, so awfully; along the same
stone passage.  We had trodden in their very footsteps.
I am gazing round me, with the horror that the place inspires, when
Goblin clutches me by the wrist, and lays, not her skinny finger, but the
handle of a key, upon her lip.  She invites me, with a jerk, to follow
her.  I do so.  She leads me out into a room adjoininga rugged room,
with a funnel-shaped, contracting roof, open at the top, to the bright
day.  I ask her what it is.  She folds her arms, leers hideously, and
stares.  I ask again.  She glances round, to see that all the little
company are there; sits down upon a mound of stones; throws up her arms,
and yells out, like a fiend, La Salle de la Question!
The Chamber of Torture!  And the roof was made of that shape to stifle
the victims cries!  Oh Goblin, Goblin, let us think of this awhile, in
silence.  Peace, Goblin!  Sit with your short arms crossed on your short
legs, upon that heap of stones, for only five minutes, and then flame out
again.
Minutes!  Seconds are not marked upon the Palace clock, when, with her
eyes flashing fire, Goblin is up, in the middle of the chamber,
describing, with her sunburnt arms, a wheel of heavy blows.  Thus it ran
round! cries Goblin.  Mash, mash, mash!  An endless routine of heavy
hammers.  Mash, mash, mash! upon the sufferers limbs.  See the stone
trough! says Goblin.  For the water torture!  Gurgle, swill, bloat,
burst, for the Redeemers honour!  Suck the bloody rag, deep down into
your unbelieving body, Heretic, at every breath you draw!  And when the
executioner plucks it out, reeking with the smaller mysteries of Gods
own Image, know us for His chosen servants, true believers in the Sermon
on the Mount, elect disciples of Him who never did a miracle but to heal:
who never struck a man with palsy, blindness, deafness, dumbness,
madness, any one affliction of mankind; and never stretched His blessed
hand out, but to give relief and ease!
