The ruined chapel, on the picturesque and beautiful sea-shore, was
dedicated, once upon a time, to Saint John the Baptist.  I believe there
is a legend that Saint Johns bones were received there, with various
solemnities, when they were first brought to Genoa; for Genoa possesses
them to this day.  When there is any uncommon tempest at sea, they are
brought out and exhibited to the raging weather, which they never fail to
calm.  In consequence of this connection of Saint John with the city,
great numbers of the common people are christened Giovanni Baptista,
which latter name is pronounced in the Genoese patois Batcheetcha, like
a sneeze.  To hear everybody calling everybody else Batcheetcha, on a
Sunday, or festa-day, when there are crowds in the streets, is not a
little singular and amusing to a stranger.
The narrow lanes have great villas opening into them, whose walls
(outside walls, I mean) are profusely painted with all sorts of subjects,
grim and holy.  But time and the sea-air have nearly obliterated them;
and they look like the entrance to Vauxhall Gardens on a sunny day.  The
court-yards of these houses are overgrown with grass and weeds; all sorts
of hideous patches cover the bases of the statues, as if they were
afflicted with a cutaneous disorder; the outer gates are rusty; and the
iron bars outside the lower windows are all tumbling down.  Firewood is
kept in halls where costly treasures might be heaped up, mountains high;
waterfalls are dry and choked; fountains, too dull to play, and too lazy
to work, have just enough recollection of their identity, in their sleep,
to make the neighbourhood damp; and the sirocco wind is often blowing
over all these things for days together, like a gigantic oven out for a
holiday.
Not long ago, there was a festa-day, in honour of the _Virgins mother_,
when the young men of the neighbourhood, having worn green wreaths of the
vine in some procession or other, bathed in them, by scores.  It looked
very odd and pretty.  Though I am bound to confess (not knowing of the
festa at that time), that I thought, and was quite satisfied, they wore
them as horses doto keep the flies off.
Soon afterwards, there was another festa-day, in honour of St. Nazaro.
One of the Albaro young men brought two large bouquets soon after
breakfast, and coming up-stairs into the great _sala_, presented them
himself.  This was a polite way of begging for a contribution towards the
expenses of some music in the Saints honour, so we gave him whatever it
may have been, and his messenger departed: well satisfied.  At six
oclock in the evening we went to the churchclose at handa very gaudy
place, hung all over with festoons and bright draperies, and filled, from
the altar to the main door, with women, all seated.  They wear no bonnets
here, simply a long white veilthe mezzero; and it was the most gauzy,
ethereal-looking audience I ever saw.  The young women are not generally
pretty, but they walk remarkably well, and in their personal carriage and
the management of their veils, display much innate grace and elegance.
There were some men present: not very many: and a few of these were
kneeling about the aisles, while everybody else tumbled over them.
Innumerable tapers were burning in the church; the bits of silver and tin
about the saints (especially in the Virgins necklace) sparkled
brilliantly; the priests were seated about the chief altar; the organ
played away, lustily, and a full band did the like; while a conductor, in
a little gallery opposite to the band, hammered away on the desk before
him, with a scroll; and a tenor, without any voice, sang.  The band
played one way, the organ played another, the singer went a third, and
the unfortunate conductor banged and banged, and flourished his scroll on
some principle of his own: apparently well satisfied with the whole
performance.  I never did hear such a discordant din.  The heat was
intense all the time.
