Looking over the familiar pages of Nicholas Nickleby, our eye lights
upon a passage, almost at opening, which refers to Gods goodness and
mercy.  As Nicklebys father lay on his death-bed, he embraced his wife
and children, and then solemnly commended them to One who never deserted
the widow or her fatherless children.  Towards the close of Esther
Summersons narrative in Bleak House we read these touching, tender
words regarding Adas baby:The little child who was to have done so
much was born before the turf was planted on its fathers grave.  It was
a boy; and I, my husband, and my guardian gave him his fathers name.
The help that my dear counted on did come to her; though it came in the
Eternal Wisdom for another purpose.  Though to bless and restore his
mother, not his father, was the errand of this baby, its power was mighty
to do it.  When I saw the strength of the weak little hand, and how its
touch could heal my darlings heart and raise up hopes within her, I felt
a new sense of the goodness and tenderness of God.  After these
illustrations of the great lessons of the goodness of God, and that there
is mercy in even our hardest trials, we come next upon one which teaches
the duty of patience and resignation to Gods will.  Mrs. Maylie observed
to Oliver Twist, with reference to the dangerous illness of Rose, that
she had seen and experienced enough to know that it is not always the
youngest and best who are spared to those that love them; but this should
give us comfort in our sorrow, for Heaven is just, and such things teach
us impressively that there is a brighter world than this, and that the
passage to it is speedy.  Gods will be done!
Our Saviours life and teaching afford so many interesting illustrations
to Charles Dickens that our great difficulty, in the limited space to
which we are now confined, is to make a good selection.  Here is a sketch
entitled A Christmas Tree, from one of his reprinted pieces, which
contains this simple and beautiful summary of our Lords life on
earth:The waits are playing, and they break my childish sleep!  What
images do I associate with the Christmas music as I see them set forth on
the Christmas Tree?  Known before all the others, keeping far apart from
all the others, they gather round my little bed.  An angel speaking to a
group of shepherds in a field; some travellers, with eyes uplifted,
following a star; a Baby in a manger; a Child in a spacious temple
talking with grave men; a solemn figure, with a mild and beautiful face,
raising a dead girl by the hand; again, near a city gate, calling back
the son of a widow, on his bier, to life; a crowd of people looking
through the opened roof of a chamber where He sits, and letting down a
sick person on a bed with ropes; the same, in a tempest, walking on the
water to a ship; again, on a sea-shore, teaching a great multitude;
again, with a child upon His knee, and other children round; again,
restoring sight to the blind, speech to the dumb, hearing to the deaf,
health to the sick, strength to the lame, knowledge to the ignorant;
again, dying upon a cross, watched by armed soldiers, a thick darkness
coming on, the earth beginning to shake, and only one voice heard,
Forgive them, for they know not what they do.
