After our raid on the oyster pirates we had returned to Oakland, where
two more weeks passed before Neil Partingtons wife was out of danger and
on the highroad to recovery.  So it was after an absence of a month, all
told, that we turned the _Reindeers_ nose toward Benicia.  When the
cats away the mice will play, and in these four weeks the fishermen had
become very bold in violating the law.  When we passed Point Pedro we
noticed many signs of activity among the shrimp-catchers, and, well into
San Pablo Bay, we observed a widely scattered fleet of Upper Bay
fishing-boats hastily pulling in their nets and getting up sail.
This was suspicious enough to warrant investigation, and the first and
only boat we succeeded in boarding proved to have an illegal net.  The
law permitted no smaller mesh for catching shad than one that measured
seven and one-half inches inside the knots, while the mesh of this
particular net measured only three inches.  It was a flagrant breach of
the rules, and the two fishermen were forthwith put under arrest.  Neil
Partington took one of them with him to help manage the _Reindeer_, while
Charley and I went on ahead with the other in the captured boat.
But the shad fleet had headed over toward the Petaluma shore in wild
flight, and for the rest of the run through San Pablo Bay we saw no more
fishermen at all.  Our prisoner, a bronzed and bearded Greek, sat
sullenly on his net while we sailed his craft.  It was a new Columbia
River salmon boat, evidently on its first trip, and it handled
splendidly.  Even when Charley praised it, our prisoner refused to speak
or to notice us, and we soon gave him up as a most unsociable fellow.
We ran up the Carquinez Straits and edged into the bight at Turners
Shipyard for smoother water.  Here were lying several English steel
sailing ships, waiting for the wheat harvest; and here, most
unexpectedly, in the precise place where we had captured Big Alec, we
came upon two Italians in a skiff that was loaded with a complete
Chinese sturgeon line.  The surprise was mutual, and we were on top of
them before either they or we were aware.  Charley had barely time to
luff into the wind and run up to them.  I ran forward and tossed them a
line with orders to make it fast.  One of the Italians took a turn with
it over a cleat, while I hastened to lower our big spritsail.  This
accomplished, the salmon boat dropped astern, dragging heavily on the
skiff.
Charley came forward to board the prize, but when I proceeded to haul
alongside by means of the line, the Italians cast it off.  We at once
began drifting to leeward, while they got out two pairs of oars and rowed
their light craft directly into the wind.  This manouvre for the moment
disconcerted us, for in our large and heavily loaded boat we could not
hope to catch them with the oars.  But our prisoner came unexpectedly to
our aid.  His black eyes were flashing eagerly, and his face was flushed
with suppressed excitement, as he dropped the centre-board, sprang
forward with a single leap, and put up the sail.
