But as this happen'd before my first Visit to that World, when I came
there all was over with him, his particular Enemies were disgrac'd
and turn'd out, and the Man was not at all the worse receiv'd by his
Country-folks than he was before; and so much for the Man in the Moon.
After we had settled the Debate between us, about the Nature and
Quality, I desir'd him to show me some Plan or Draft of this new
World of his; upon which, he brought me out a pair of very beautiful
Globes, and there I had an immediate Geographical Description of the
Place.
I found it less by Degrees than Our Terrestial Globe, but more Land
and less Water; and as I was particularly concern'd to see something
in or near the same Climate with Our selves, I observ'd a large
extended Country to the North, about the Latitude of 50 to 56
Northern Distance; and enquiring of that Country, he told me it was
one of the best Countries in all their World: That it was his Native
Climate, and he was just a going to it, and would take me with him.
He told me in General, the Country was Good, Wholsome, Fruitful,
rarely Scituate for Trade, extraordinarily Accommodated with
Harbours, Rivers and Bays for Shipping; full of Inhabitants; for it
had been Peopled from all Parts, and had in it some of the Blood of
all the Nations in the Moon.
He told me, as the Inhabitants were the most Numerous, so they
were the strangest People that liv'd; both their Natures, Tempers,
Qualities, Actions, and way of Living, was made up of innumerable
Contradictions: That they were the Wisest Fools, and the Foolishest
Wise Men in the World; the Weakest Strongest, Richest Poorest, most
Generous Covetous, Bold Cowardly, False Faithful, Sober Dissolute,
Surly Civil, Slothful Diligent, Peaceable Quarrelling, Loyal
Seditious Nation that ever was known.
Besides my Observations which I made my self, and which could only
furnish me with what was present, and which I shall take time to
inform my Reader with as much Care and Conciseness as possible; I was
beholding to this Old Lunarian, for every thing that was Historical
or Particular.
And First, He inform'd me, That in this new Country they had very
seldom any Clouds at all, and consequently no extraordinary Storms,
but a constant Serenity, moderate Breezes cooled the Air, and
constant Evening Exhalations kept the Earth moist and fruitful; and
as the Winds they had were various and strong enough to assist their
Navigation, so they were without the Terrors, Dangers, Ship-wrecks
and Destructions, which he knew we were troubled with in this our
Lunar World, as he call'd it.
The first just Observation I made of this was, That I suppos'd from
hence the wonderful Clearness of the Air, and the Advantage of so
vast Optick Capacities they enjoy'd, was obtained: Alas! says the Old
Fellow, You see nothing to what some of our Great Eyes see in some
Parts of this World, nor do you see any thing compar'd to what you
may see by the help of some new Invented Glasses, of which I may in
time let you see the Experiment; and perhaps you may find this to be
the reason why we do not so abound in Books as in your Lunar World;
and that except it be some extraordinary Translations out of your
Country, you will find but little in our Libraries, worth giving you
a great deal of Trouble.
