We gat in all those Ships, besides the Provisions above-mention'd, about
200 Musquets and Pistols, good Store of Cutlasses, about 20 Tun of Iron
Shot and Musquet Ball, and 33 Barrels of good Powder, which was all very
suitable Things to our Occasions.
We were fully satisfy'd, as we said to one another, now, and concluded that
we would stand away to the Windward, as well as we could, towards the Coast
of _Africa_, that we might come in the Wind's Way for the Coast of
_Brasil_; but our Frigat (I mean that we were first shipp'd in) was yet out
upon the Cruise, and not come in; so we came to an Anchor to wait for her,
when, behold, the next Morning she came in with full Sail, and a Prize in
Tow: She had, it seems, been farther West than her Orders, but had met with
a _Spanish_ Prize, whither bound, or from whence, I remember we did not
enquire, but we found in her, besides Merchandize, which we had no Occasion
for, 65000 Pieces of Eight in Silver, some Gold, and two Boxes of Pearl of
a good Value; five _Dutch_, or rather _Flemish_, Seamen that were on Board
her, were willing to go with us; and as to the rest of the Cargo, we let
her go, only finding four of her Guns were Brass, we took them into our
Ship, with seven great Jars of Powder, and some Cannon-Shot, and let her
go, using the _Spaniards_ very civilly.
This was a Piece of meer good Fortune to us, and was so encouraging as
nothing could be more, for it set us up, as we may say; for now we thought
we could never fail of good Fortune, and we resolv'd, one and all, directly
to the South Seas.
It was about the Middle of _August_ 1690 that we set forward, and steering
E. by S. and E. S. E. for about fifteen Days, with the Winds at N. N. W.
variable, we came quickly into the Trade Winds, with a good Offing, to go
clear of all the Islands; and so we steer'd directly for _Cape St.
Augustin_ in the _Brasils_, which we made the 22nd of _September_.
We cruis'd some Time upon the Coast, about the Bay of _All Saints_, and put
in once or twice for fresh Water, especially at the Island of St. _John_'s,
where we got good Store of Fish, and some Hogs, which, for fresh
Provisions, was a great Relief to us: But we gat no Purchase here; for
whether it was that their _European_ Ships were just come in, or just gone
out, we know not, or whether they suspected what we were, and so kept close
within their Ports, but in thirteen Days that we ply'd off and on about
_Fernambuque_, and about fourteen Days more that we spent in coasting along
the _Brasil_ Shore to the South, we met not one Ship, neither saw a Sail,
except of their Fishing-Boats or small Coasters, who kept close under
Shore.
