The mate told them, in so many words, that he durst not speak to the
captain upon any such design, and was very sorry they had no more
respect for him than to desire him to go upon such an errand; but, if
they were resolved upon such an enterprise, he would advise them to take
the long-boat in the morning betimes, and go off, seeing the captain had
given them leave, and leave a civil letter behind them to the captain,
and to desire him to send his men on shore for the boat, which should be
delivered very honestly, and he promised to keep their counsel so long.
Accordingly, an hour before day, those twenty-three men, with every
man a firelock and a cutlass, with some pistols, three halberds or
half-pikes, and good store of powder and ball, without any provision but
about half a hundred of bread, but with all their chests and clothes,
tools, instruments, books, &c., embarked themselves so silently, that
the captain got no notice of it till they were gotten half the way on
shore.
As soon as the captain heard of it he called for the gunner's mate, the
chief gunner being at the time sick in his cabin, and ordered to fire at
them; but, to his great mortification, the gunner's mate was one of the
number, and was gone with them; and indeed it was by this means they got
so many arms and so much ammunition. When the captain found how it was,
and that there was no help for it, he began to be a little appeased, and
made light of it, and called up the men, and spoke kindly to them, and
told them he was very well satisfied in the fidelity and ability of
those that were now left, and that he would give to them, for their
encouragement, to be divided among them, the wages which were due to the
men that were gone, and that it was a great satisfaction to him that the
ship was free from such a mutinous rabble, who had not the least reason
for their discontent.
The men seemed very well satisfied, and particularly the promise of the
wages of those who were gone went a great way with them. After this, the
letter which was left by the men was given to the captain by his boy,
with whom, it seems, the men had left it. The letter was much to the
same purpose of what they had said to the mate, and which he declined to
say for them, only that at the end of their letter they told the captain
that, as they had no dishonest design, so they had taken nothing away
with them which was not their own, except some arms and ammunition, such
as were absolutely necessary to them, as well for their defence against
the savages as to kill fowls or beasts for their food, that they might
not perish; and as there were considerable sums due to them for wages,
they hoped he would allow the arms and ammunition upon their accounts.
They told him that, as to the ship's longboat, which they had taken to
bring them on shore, they knew it was necessary to him, and they were
very willing to restore it to him, and if he pleased to send for it, it
should be very honestly delivered to his men, and not the least injury
offered to any of those who came for it, nor the least persuasion or
invitation made use of to any of them to stay with them; and, at the
bottom of the letter, they very humbly besought him that, for their
defence, and for the safety of their lives, he would be pleased to send
them a barrel of powder and some ammunition, and give them leave to keep
the mast and sail of the boat, that if it was possible for them to make
themselves a boat of any kind, they might shift off to sea, to save
themselves in such part of the world as their fate should direct them
to.
