   [Footnote 34: Properly elliptical--_I have done right; for_,
   &c.--Crusius.]
Thus these twain, striving with contrary words, arose, and they broke up
the assembly at the ships of the Greeks. The son of Peleus on his part
repaired to his tents and well-proportioned[35] ships, with the son of
Menoetius,[36] and his companions. But the son of Atreus[37] launched
his swift ship into the sea, and selected and put into it twenty rowers,
and embarked a hecatomb for the god. And he led the fair daughter of
Chryses and placed her on board, and the very wise Ulysses embarked as
conductor. They then embarking, sailed over the watery paths. But the
son of Atreus ordered the armies to purify themselves;[38] and they were
purified, and cast forth the ablutions into the sea. And they sacrificed
to Apollo perfect hecatombs of bulls and goats, along the shore of the
barren sea; and the savour involved in[39] smoke ascended to heaven.
Thus were they employed in these things through the army. Nor did
Agamemnon cease from the contention which at first he threatened against
Achilles. But he thus addressed Talthybius and Eurybates, who were his
heralds and zealous attendants:[40]
   [Footnote 35: Equal on both sides, so as to preserve a balance.
   But Blomfield, Obs. on Matth. Gr. Sec. 124, prefers to render it
   "ships of due size," as [Greek: dais eise], ver. 468, "an
   equalized meal."]
   [Footnote 36: Patroclus.]
   [Footnote 37: So Anthon, comparing ver. 142.]
   [Footnote 38: Not a mere medicinal measure, but a symbolical
   putting away of the guilt, which, through Agamemnon's
   transgression, was brought upon the army also.--Wolf.]
   [Footnote 39: Not _about_ the smoke, but _in_ the smoke; for
   [Greek: peri] denotes also the staying within the compass of an
   object.--Naegelsbach.]
   [Footnote 40: [Greek: therapon] is a voluntary servant, as
   opposed to [Greek: doulos].--See Arnold.]
"Going to the tent of Achilles, the son of Peleus, lead away fair
Briseis, having taken her by the hand; but if he will not give her, then
I myself, coming with great numbers, will take her, and this will be
more grievous[41] to him."
Thus speaking, he despatched them, having added[42] a harsh command. But
they reluctantly went along the shore of the barren sea, and came to the
tents and ships of the Myrmidons. And they found him sitting at his tent
and his black ship: nor did Achilles, seeing them, rejoice. But they,
confused, and reverencing the king, stood still, nor addressed him at
all, nor spoke [their bidding]. But he perceived [it] in his mind, and
said:
"Hail, heralds, messengers of Jove,[43] and also of men, come near, for
ye are not blamable to me in the least, but Agamemnon, who has sent you
on account of the maid Briseis. However, come, noble Patroclus, lead
forth the maid, and give her to them to conduct; but let these be
witnesses [of the insult offered me], both before the blessed gods, and
before mortal men, and before the merciless king. But if ever again
there shall be need of me to avert unseemly destruction from the rest,
[appeal to me shall be in vain],[44] for surely he rages with an
infatuated mind, nor knows at all how to view the future and the past,
in order that the Greeks may fight in safety at their ships."
