China was at last awake.  Where the West had failed, Japan succeeded.
She had transmuted Western culture and achievement into terms that were
intelligible to the Chinese understanding.  Japan herself, when she so
suddenly awakened, had astounded the world.  But at the time she was only
forty millions strong.  Chinas awakening, with her four hundred millions
and the scientific advance of the world, was frightfully astounding.  She
was the colossus of the nations, and swiftly her voice was heard in no
uncertain tones in the affairs and councils of the nations.  Japan egged
her on, and the proud Western peoples listened with respectful ears.
Chinas swift and remarkable rise was due, perhaps more than to anything
else, to the superlative quality of her labour.  The Chinese was the
perfect type of industry.  He had always been that.  For sheer ability to
work no worker in the world could compare with him.  Work was the breath
of his nostrils.  It was to him what wandering and fighting in far lands
and spiritual adventure had been to other peoples.  Liberty, to him,
epitomized itself in access to the means of toil.  To till the soil and
labour interminably was all he asked of life and the powers that be.  And
the awakening of China had given its vast population not merely free and
unlimited access to the means of toil, but access to the highest and most
scientific machine-means of toil.
China rejuvenescent!  It was but a step to China rampant.  She discovered
a new pride in herself and a will of her own.  She began to chafe under
the guidance of Japan, but she did not chafe long.  On Japans advice, in
the beginning, she had expelled from the Empire all Western missionaries,
engineers, drill sergeants, merchants, and teachers.  She now began to
expel the similar representatives of Japan.  The latters advisory
statesmen were showered with honours and decorations, and sent home.  The
West had awakened Japan, and, as Japan had then requited the West, Japan
was not requited by China.  Japan was thanked for her kindly aid and
flung out bag and baggage by her gigantic protégé.  The Western nations
chuckled.  Japans rainbow dream had gone glimmering.  She grew angry.
China laughed at her.  The blood and the swords of the Samurai would out,
and Japan rashly went to war.  This occurred in 1922, and in seven bloody
months Manchuria, Korea, and Formosa were taken away from her and she was
hurled back, bankrupt, to stifle in her tiny, crowded islands.  Exit
Japan from the world drama.  Thereafter she devoted herself to art, and
her task became to please the world greatly with her creations of wonder
and beauty.
Contrary to expectation, China did not prove warlike.  She had no
Napoleonic dream, and was content to devote herself to the arts of peace.
After a time of disquiet, the idea was accepted that China was to be
feared, not in war, but in commerce.  It will be seen that the real
danger was not apprehended.  China went on consummating her
machine-civilization.  Instead of a large standing army, she developed an
immensely larger and splendidly efficient militia.  Her navy was so small
that it was the laughing stock of the world; nor did she attempt to
strengthen her navy.  The treaty ports of the world were never entered by
her visiting battleships.
