But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the wind also
falling calm next morning, we found that our two men who had been laid in
irons had stolen each of them a musket and some other weapons (what
powder or shot they had we knew not), and had taken the ship's pinnace,
which was not yet hauled up, and run away with her to their companions in
roguery on shore.  As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on
shore, with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek the
rogues; but they could neither find them nor any of the rest, for they
all fled into the woods when they saw the boat coming on shore.  The mate
was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their
plantations, burned all their household stuff and furniture, and left
them to shift without it; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left
everything as he found it, and bringing the pinnace way, came on board
without them.  These two men made their number five; but the other three
villains were so much more wicked than they, that after they had been two
or three days together they turned the two newcomers out of doors to
shift for themselves, and would have nothing to do with them; nor could
they for a good while be persuaded to give them any food: as for the
Spaniards, they were not yet come.
When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go forward:
the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English brutes to have taken
in their countrymen again, that, as they said, they might be all one
family; but they would not hear of it, so the two poor fellows lived by
themselves; and finding nothing but industry and application would make
them live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the
island, but a little more to the west, to be out of danger of the
savages, who always landed on the east parts of the island.  Here they
built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up their
magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards having given them some corn
for seed, and some of the peas which I had left them, they dug, planted,
and enclosed, after the pattern I had set for them all, and began to live
pretty well.  Their first crop of corn was on the ground; and though it
was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at first, having had
but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find them with
bread and other eatables; and one of the fellows being the cook's mate of
the ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings, and such other
preparations as the rice and the milk, and such little flesh as they got,
furnished him to do.
