But the Bug? queried Deer-Runner.  What became of him?
He went to live with the Meat-Eaters and to be a singer of songs to the
king.  He is an old man now, but he sings the same old songs; and, when a
man rises up to go forward, he sings that that man is walking backward to
live in a tree.
Long-Beard dipped into the bear-carcass and sucked with toothless gums at
a fist of suet.
Some day, he said, wiping his hands on his sides, all the fools will
be dead and then all live men will go forward.  The strength of the
strong will be theirs, and they will add their strength together, so
that, of all the men in the world, not one will fight with another.
There will be no guards nor watchers on the walls.  And all the hunting
animals will be killed, and, as Hair-Face said, all the hill-sides will
be pastured with goats and all the high mountain valleys will be planted
with corn and fat roots.  And all men will be brothers, and no man will
lie idle in the sun and be fed by his fellows.  And all that will come to
pass in the time when the fools are dead, and when there will be no more
singers to stand still and sing the Song of the Bees.  Bees are not
men.
SOUTH OF THE SLOT
OLD San Francisco, which is the San Francisco of only the other day, the
day before the Earthquake, was divided midway by the Slot.  The Slot was
an iron crack that ran along the centre of Market Street, and from the
Slot arose the burr of the ceaseless, endless cable that was hitched at
will to the cars it dragged up and down.  In truth, there were two slots,
but in the quick grammar of the West time was saved by calling them, and
much more that they stood for, The Slot.  North of the Slot were the
theatres, hotels, and shopping district, the banks and the staid,
respectable business houses.  South of the Slot were the factories,
slums, laundries, machine-shops, boiler works, and the abodes of the
working class.
The Slot was the metaphor that expressed the class cleavage of Society,
and no man crossed this metaphor, back and forth, more successfully than
Freddie Drummond.  He made a practice of living in both worlds, and in
both worlds he lived signally well.  Freddie Drummond was a professor in
the Sociology Department of the University of California, and it was as a
professor of sociology that he first crossed over the Slot, lived for six
mouths in the great labour-ghetto, and wrote _The Unskilled Labourer_a
book that was hailed everywhere as an able contribution to the literature
of progress, and as a splendid reply to the literature of discontent.
Politically and economically it was nothing if not orthodox.  Presidents
of great railway systems bought whole editions of it to give to their
employees.  The Manufacturers Association alone distributed fifty
thousand copies of it.  In a way, it was almost as immoral as the
far-famed and notorious _Message to Garcia_, while in its pernicious
preachment of thrift and content it ran _Mr. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch_
a close second.
