But, however he knows the certainty of this, and that when he endeavours
the seducing the chosen servants of the most High, he fights against GOD
himself, struggles with irresistible grace, and makes war with infinite
power; undermining the church of God, and that faith in him which is
fortified with the eternal promises of Jesus Christ, that the gates of
_Hell_, that is to say, the _Devil_ and all his power, shall not prevail
against them; I say, however he knows the impossibility there is that he
should obtain his ends, yet so blind is his rage, so infatuate his
wisdom, that he cannot refrain breaking himself to pieces against this
mountain, and splitting against the rock. _qui Jupiter vult perdere hos
dementat._
But to leave this serious part, which is a little too solemn, for the
account of this rebel; seeing we are not to expect he will write his own
History for our information and diversion, I shall see if I cannot write
it for him: In order to this, I shall extract the substance of his
whole story, from the beginning to our own times, which I shall collect
out of what is come to hand, whether by revelation or inspiration,
that's nothing to him; I shall take care so to improve my intelligence,
as may make my account of him authentick, and, _in a word_, such as the
Devil himself shall not be able to contradict.
In writing this uncouth story I shall be freed from the censures of the
Criticks, in a more than ordinary manner, upon one account especially;
(_viz._) that my story shall be so just and so well grounded, and, after
all the good things I shall say of _Satan_, will be so little to his
satisfaction, that _the Devil_ himself will not be able to say, I _dealt
with the Devil_ in writing it: I might, perhaps, give you some account
where I had my intelligence, and how all the Arcana of his management
have come to my hands; _but pardon me, Gentlemen_, this would be to
betray conversation, and to discover my agents, and you know statesmen
are very careful to preserve the correspondences they keep in the
enemy's country, lest they expose their friends to the resentment of the
Power whose councils they betray.
Besides, the learned tell us, that ministers of state make an excellent
plea of their not betraying their intelligence, against all party
inquiries into the great sums of money pretended to be paid for _secret
service_; and whether the secret service was to bribe people to betray
things abroad or at home; whether the money was paid to some body or to
no body, employ'd to establish correspondences abroad, or to establish
families and amass treasure at home; in a word, whether it was to serve
their country or serve themselves, it has been the same thing, and the
same plea has been their protection: Likewise in the important affair
which I am upon, 'tis hoped you will not desire me to betray my
Correspondents; for you know _Satan_ is naturally cruel and malicious,
and who knows what he might do to shew his resentment? at least it might
endanger a stop of our intelligence for the future.
