And by jinks he told the truth.  And right then they were dying forty a
day in Guayaquil of Yellow Jack.  But that was nothing, as I was to find
out.  Bubonic plague and small-pox were raging, while dysentery and
pneumonia were reducing the population, and the railroad was raging worst
of all.  I mean that.  For them that insisted in riding on it, it was
more dangerous than all the other diseases put together.
When we dropped anchor off Guayaquil half a dozen skippers from other
steamers came on board to warn our skipper not to let any of his crew or
officers go ashore except the ones he wanted to lose.  A launch came off
for me from Duran, which is on the other side of the river and is the
terminal of the railroad.  And it brought off a man that soared up the
gangway three jumps at a time he was that eager to get aboard.  When he
hit the deck he hadnt time to speak to any of us.  He just leaned out
over the rail and shook his fist at Duran and shouted: I beat you to it!
I beat you to it!
Whod you beat to it, friend? I asked.  The railroad, he said, as he
unbuckled the straps and took off a big 44 Colts automatic from where
he wore it handy on his left side under his coat, I staved as long as I
agreedthree monthsand it didnt get me.  I was a conductor.
And that was the railroad I was to work for.  All of which was nothing
to what he told me in the next few minutes.  The road ran from sea level
at Duran up to twelve thousand feet on Chimborazo and down to ten
thousand at Quito on the other side the range.  And it was so dangerous
that the trains didnt run nights.  The through passengers had to get off
and sleep in the towns at night while the train waited for daylight.  And
each train carried a guard of Ecuadoriano soldiers which was the most
dangerous of all.  They were supposed to protect the train crews, but
whenever trouble started they unlimbered their rifles and joined the mob.
You see, whenever a train wreck occurred, the first cry of the spiggoties
was Kill the Gringos!  They always did that, and proceeded to kill the
train crew and whatever chance Gringo passengers thatd escaped being
killed in the accident.  Which is their kind of arithmetic, which I told
you a while back as being different from ours.
Shucks!  Before the day was out I was to find out for myself that that
ex-conductor wasnt lying.  It was over at Duran.  I was to take my run
on the first division out to Quito, for which place I was to start next
morningonly one through train running every twenty-four hours.  It was
the afternoon of my first day, along about four oclock, when the boilers
of the _Governor Hancock_ exploded and she sank in sixty feet of water
alongside the dock.  She was the big ferry boat that carried the railroad
passengers across the river to Guayaquil.  It was a bad accident, but it
was the cause of worse that followed.  By half-past four, big trainloads
began to arrive.  It was a feast day and theyd run an excursion up
country but of Guayaquil, and this was the crowd coming back.
