Is the sweet little cherub who sits smiling aloft and keeps watch on life
of poor Jack, commissioned to take charge of Mercantile Jack, as well as
Jack of the national navy?  If not, who is?  What is the cherub about,
and what are we all about, when poor Mercantile Jack is having his brains
slowly knocked out by penny-weights, aboard the brig Beelzebub, or the
barque Bowie-knifewhen he looks his last at that infernal craft, with
the first officers iron boot-heel in his remaining eye, or with his
dying body towed overboard in the ships wake, while the cruel wounds in
it do the multitudinous seas incarnadine?
Is it unreasonable to entertain a belief that if, aboard the brig
Beelzebub or the barque Bowie-knife, the first officer did half the
damage to cotton that he does to men, there would presently arise from
both sides of the Atlantic so vociferous an invocation of the sweet
little cherub who sits calculating aloft, keeping watch on the markets
that pay, that such vigilant cherub would, with a winged sword, have that
gallant officers organ of destructiveness out of his head in the space
of a flash of lightning?
If it be unreasonable, then am I the most unreasonable of men, for I
believe it with all my soul.
This was my thought as I walked the dock-quays at Liverpool, keeping
watch on poor Mercantile Jack.  Alas for me!  I have long outgrown the
state of sweet little cherub; but there I was, and there Mercantile Jack
was, and very busy he was, and very cold he was: the snow yet lying in
the frozen furrows of the land, and the north-east winds snipping off the
tops of the little waves in the Mersey, and rolling them into hailstones
to pelt him with.  Mercantile Jack was hard at it, in the hard weather:
as he mostly is in all weathers, poor Jack.  He was girded to ships
masts and funnels of steamers, like a forester to a great oak, scraping
and painting; he was lying out on yards, furling sails that tried to beat
him off; he was dimly discernible up in a world of giant cobwebs, reefing
and splicing; he was faintly audible down in holds, stowing and
unshipping cargo; he was winding round and round at capstans melodious,
monotonous, and drunk; he was of a diabolical aspect, with coaling for
the Antipodes; he was washing decks barefoot, with the breast of his red
shirt open to the blast, though it was sharper than the knife in his
leathern girdle; he was looking over bulwarks, all eyes and hair; he was
standing by at the shoot of the Cunard steamer, off to-morrow, as the
stocks in trade of several butchers, poulterers, and fishmongers, poured
down into the ice-house; he was coming aboard of other vessels, with his
kit in a tarpaulin bag, attended by plunderers to the very last moment of
his shore-going existence.  As though his senses, when released from the
uproar of the elements, were under obligation to be confused by other
turmoil, there was a rattling of wheels, a clattering of hoofs, a
clashing of iron, a jolting of cotton and hides and casks and timber, an
incessant deafening disturbance on the quays, that was the very madness
of sound.  And as, in the midst of it, he stood swaying about, with his
hair blown all manner of wild ways, rather crazedly taking leave of his
plunderers, all the rigging in the docks was shrill in the wind, and
every little steamer coming and going across the Mersey was sharp in its
blowing off, and every buoy in the river bobbed spitefully up and down,
as if there were a general taunting chorus of Come along, Mercantile
Jack!  Ill-lodged, ill-fed, ill-used, hocussed, entrapped, anticipated,
cleaned out.  Come along, Poor Mercantile Jack, and be tempest-tossed
till you are drowned!
