The Hidden Sands, almost the only real Dread of a Sailor, and by which
till the Channels between them were found out, our Eastern Coast must be
really unpassable, now serve to make Harbours: and _Yarmouth_ Road was
made a safe Place for Shipping by them. Nay, when _Portsmouth_,
_Plymouth_, and other good Harbours would not defend our Ships in the
Violent Tempest we are treating of, here was the least Damage done of
any Place in _England_, considering the Number of Ships which lay at
Anchor, and the Openness of the Place.
So that upon the whole it seems plain to me, that all the dismal things
the Ancients told us of _Britain_, and her terrible Shores, arose from
the Infancy of Marine Knowledge, and the Weakness of the Sailor's
Courage.
Not but that I readily allow we are more subject to bad Weather and hard
Gales of Wind than the Coasts of _Spain_, _Italy_, and _Barbary_. But if
this be allow'd, our Improvement in the Art of Building Ships is so
considerable, our Vessels are so prepar'd to ride out the most violent
Storms, that the Fury of the Sea is the least thing our Sailors fear:
Keep them but from _a Lee Shore_, or touching upon a Sand, they'll
venture all the rest: and nothing is a greater satisfaction to them, if
they have a Storm in view, than a sound Bottom and good _Sea-room_.
From hence it comes to pass, that such Winds as in those Days wou'd have
pass'd for Storms, are called only a _Fresh-gale_, or _Blowing hard_. If
it blows enough to fright a South Country Sailor, we laugh at it: and if
our Sailors bald Terms were set down in a Table of Degrees, it will
explain what we mean.
    _Stark Calm._    | _A Top-sail Gale._
    _Calm Weather._  | _Blows fresh._
    _Little Wind._   | _A hard Gale of Wind._
    _A fine Breeze._ | _A Fret of Wind._
    _A small Gale._  | _A Storm._
    _A fresh Gale._  | _A Tempest._
Just half these Tarpawlin Articles, I presume, would have pass'd in
those Days for a Storm; and that our Sailors call a Top-sail Gale would
have drove the Navigators of those Ages into Harbours: when our Sailors
reef a Top-sail, they would have handed all their Sails; and when we go
under a main Course, they would have run _afore it_ for Life to the next
Port they could make: when our _Hard Gale_ blows, they would have cried
a Tempest; and about the _Fret of Wind_ they would be all at their
Prayers.
And if we should reckon by this Account we are a stormy Country indeed,
our Seas are no more Navigable now for such Sailors than they were then:
If the _Japoneses_, the _East Indians_, and such like Navigators, were
to come with their thin Cockleshell Barks and Calico Sails; if
_Cleopatra's_ Fleet, or _Caesar's_ great Ships with which he fought the
Battle of _Actium_, were to come upon our Seas, there hardly comes a
_March_ or a _September_ in twenty Years but would blow them to Pieces,
and then the poor Remnant that got Home, would go and talk of a terrible
Country where there's nothing but Storms and Tempests; when all the
Matter is, the Weakness of their Shipping, and the Ignorance of their
Sea-men: and I make no question but our Ships ride out many a worse
Storm than that terrible Tempest which scatter'd _Julius Caesar's_ Fleet,
or the same that drove _AEneas_ on the Coast of _Carthage_.
