So, these two old ladies, separated by the breadth of the
gratingotherwise they would fly at one anothers capssat all day long,
suspecting one another, and contemplating a world of fits.  For everybody
else in the room had fits, except the wards-woman; an elderly,
able-bodied pauperess, with a large upper lip, and an air of repressing
and saving her strength, as she stood with her hands folded before her,
and her eyes slowly rolling, biding her time for catching or holding
somebody.  This civil personage (in whom I regretted to identify a
reduced member of my honourable friend Mrs. Gamps family) said, They
has em continiwal, sir.  They drops without no more notice than if they
was coach-horses dropped from the moon, sir.  And when one drops, another
drops, and sometimes therell be as many as four or five on em at once,
dear me, a rolling and a tearin, bless you!this young woman, now, has
em dreadful bad.
She turned up this young womans face with her hand as she said it.  This
young woman was seated on the floor, pondering in the foreground of the
afflicted.  There was nothing repellent either in her face or head.
Many, apparently worse, varieties of epilepsy and hysteria were about
her, but she was said to be the worst here.  When I had spoken to her a
little, she still sat with her face turned up, pondering, and a gleam of
the mid-day sun shone in upon her.
Whether this young woman, and the rest of these so sorely troubled, as
they sit or lie pondering in their confused dull way, ever get mental
glimpses among the motes in the sunlight, of healthy people and healthy
things?  Whether this young woman, brooding like this in the summer
season, ever thinks that somewhere there are trees and flowers, even
mountains and the great sea?  Whether, not to go so far, this young woman
ever has any dim revelation of that young womanthat young woman who is
not here and never will come here; who is courted, and caressed, and
loved, and has a husband, and bears children, and lives in a home, and
who never knows what it is to have this lashing and tearing coming upon
her?  And whether this young woman, God help her, gives herself up then
and drops like a coach-horse from the moon?
I hardly knew whether the voices of infant children, penetrating into so
hopeless a place, made a sound that was pleasant or painful to me.  It
was something to be reminded that the weary world was not all aweary, and
was ever renewing itself; but, this young woman was a child not long ago,
and a child not long hence might be such as she.  Howbeit, the active
step and eye of the vigilant matron conducted me past the two provincial
gentlewomen (whose dignity was ruffled by the children), and into the
adjacent nursery.
There were many babies here, and more than one handsome young mother.
There were ugly young mothers also, and sullen young mothers, and callous
young mothers.  But, the babies had not appropriated to themselves any
bad expression yet, and might have been, for anything that appeared to
the contrary in their soft faces, Princes Imperial, and Princesses Royal.
I had the pleasure of giving a poetical commission to the bakers man to
make a cake with all despatch and toss it into the oven for one
red-headed young pauper and myself, and felt much the better for it.
Without that refreshment, I doubt if I should have been in a condition
for the Refractories, towards whom my quick little matronfor whose
adaptation to her office I had by this time conceived a genuine
respectdrew me next, and marshalled me the way that I was going.
