It was in no romantic place that I had this curious sensation, but in
chambers in Piccadilly, very near to the corner of St. Jamess Street.
It was entirely new to me.  I was in my easy-chair at the moment, and the
sensation was accompanied with a peculiar shiver which started the chair
from its position.  (But it is to be noted that the chair ran easily on
castors.)  I went to one of the windows (there are two in the room, and
the room is on the second floor) to refresh my eyes with the moving
objects down in Piccadilly.  It was a bright autumn morning, and the
street was sparkling and cheerful.  The wind was high.  As I looked out,
it brought down from the Park a quantity of fallen leaves, which a gust
took, and whirled into a spiral pillar.  As the pillar fell and the
leaves dispersed, I saw two men on the opposite side of the way, going
from West to East.  They were one behind the other.  The foremost man
often looked back over his shoulder.  The second man followed him, at a
distance of some thirty paces, with his right hand menacingly raised.
First, the singularity and steadiness of this threatening gesture in so
public a thoroughfare attracted my attention; and next, the more
remarkable circumstance that nobody heeded it.  Both men threaded their
way among the other passengers with a smoothness hardly consistent even
with the action of walking on a pavement; and no single creature, that I
could see, gave them place, touched them, or looked after them.  In
passing before my windows, they both stared up at me.  I saw their two
faces very distinctly, and I knew that I could recognise them anywhere.
Not that I had consciously noticed anything very remarkable in either
face, except that the man who went first had an unusually lowering
appearance, and that the face of the man who followed him was of the
colour of impure wax.
I am a bachelor, and my valet and his wife constitute my whole
establishment.  My occupation is in a certain Branch Bank, and I wish
that my duties as head of a Department were as light as they are
popularly supposed to be.  They kept me in town that autumn, when I stood
in need of change.  I was not ill, but I was not well.  My reader is to
make the most that can be reasonably made of my feeling jaded, having a
depressing sense upon me of a monotonous life, and being slightly
dyspeptic.  I am assured by my renowned doctor that my real state of
health at that time justifies no stronger description, and I quote his
own from his written answer to my request for it.
As the circumstances of the murder, gradually unravelling, took stronger
and stronger possession of the public mind, I kept them away from mine by
knowing as little about them as was possible in the midst of the
universal excitement.  But I knew that a verdict of Wilful Murder had
been found against the suspected murderer, and that he had been committed
to Newgate for trial.  I also knew that his trial had been postponed over
one Sessions of the Central Criminal Court, on the ground of general
prejudice and want of time for the preparation of the defence.  I may
further have known, but I believe I did not, when, or about when, the
Sessions to which his trial stood postponed would come on.
