And now it was, at the full height of enjoyment of my bliss, that I
became heavily troubled.  I began to think of my mother, and what she
would say to my taking home at Midsummer eight of the most beautiful of
the daughters of men, but all unexpected.  I thought of the number of
beds we made up at our house, of my fathers income, and of the baker,
and my despondency redoubled.  The Seraglio and malicious Vizier,
divining the cause of their Lords unhappiness, did their utmost to
augment it.  They professed unbounded fidelity, and declared that they
would live and die with him.  Reduced to the utmost wretchedness by these
protestations of attachment, I lay awake, for hours at a time, ruminating
on my frightful lot.  In my despair, I think I might have taken an early
opportunity of falling on my knees before Miss Griffin, avowing my
resemblance to Solomon, and praying to be dealt with according to the
outraged laws of my country, if an unthought-of means of escape had not
opened before me.
One day, we were out walking, two and twoon which occasion the Vizier
had his usual instructions to take note of the boy at the turnpike, and
if he profanely gazed (which he always did) at the beauties of the
Hareem, to have him bowstrung in the course of the nightand it happened
that our hearts were veiled in gloom.  An unaccountable action on the
part of the antelope had plunged the State into disgrace.  That charmer,
on the representation that the previous day was her birthday, and that
vast treasures had been sent in a hamper for its celebration (both
baseless assertions), had secretly but most pressingly invited
thirty-five neighbouring princes and princesses to a ball and supper:
with a special stipulation that they were not to be fetched till
twelve.  This wandering of the antelopes fancy, led to the surprising
arrival at Miss Griffins door, in divers equipages and under various
escorts, of a great company in full dress, who were deposited on the top
step in a flush of high expectancy, and who were dismissed in tears.  At
the beginning of the double knocks attendant on these ceremonies, the
antelope had retired to a back attic, and bolted herself in; and at every
new arrival, Miss Griffin had gone so much more and more distracted, that
at last she had been seen to tear her front.  Ultimate capitulation on
the part of the offender, had been followed by solitude in the
linen-closet, bread and water and a lecture to all, of vindictive length,
in which Miss Griffin had used expressions: Firstly, I believe you all
of you knew of it; Secondly, Every one of you is as wicked as another;
Thirdly, A pack of little wretches.
Under these circumstances, we were walking drearily along; and I
especially, with my Moosulmaun responsibilities heavy on me, was in a
very low state of mind; when a strange man accosted Miss Griffin, and,
after walking on at her side for a little while and talking with her,
looked at me.  Supposing him to be a minion of the law, and that my hour
was come, I instantly ran away, with the general purpose of making for
Egypt.
