[The other creature had already fallen into the second male place in the
State, and was set apart for Grand Vizier.  He afterwards resisted this
disposal of events, but had his hair pulled until he yielded.]
Shall I not be jealous? Miss Bule inquired, casting down her eyes.
Zobeide, no, I replied; you will ever be the favourite Sultana; the
first place in my heart, and on my throne, will be ever yours.
Miss Bule, upon that assurance, consented to propound the idea to her
seven beautiful companions.  It occurring to me, in the course of the
same day, that we knew we could trust a grinning and good-natured soul
called Tabby, who was the serving drudge of the house, and had no more
figure than one of the beds, and upon whose face there was always more or
less black-lead, I slipped into Miss Bules hand after supper, a little
note to that effect; dwelling on the black-lead as being in a manner
deposited by the finger of Providence, pointing Tabby out for Mesrour,
the celebrated chief of the Blacks of the Hareem.
There were difficulties in the formation of the desired institution, as
there are in all combinations.  The other creature showed himself of a
low character, and, when defeated in aspiring to the throne, pretended to
have conscientious scruples about prostrating himself before the Caliph;
wouldnt call him Commander of the Faithful; spoke of him slightingly and
inconsistently as a mere chap; said he, the other creature, wouldnt
playPlay!and was otherwise coarse and offensive.  This meanness of
disposition was, however, put down by the general indignation of an
united Seraglio, and I became blessed in the smiles of eight of the
fairest of the daughters of men.
The smiles could only be bestowed when Miss Griffin was looking another
way, and only then in a very wary manner, for there was a legend among
the followers of the Prophet that she saw with a little round ornament in
the middle of the pattern on the back of her shawl.  But every day after
dinner, for an hour, we were all together, and then the Favourite and the
rest of the Royal Hareem competed who should most beguile the leisure of
the Serene Haroun reposing from the cares of Statewhich were generally,
as in most affairs of State, of an arithmetical character, the Commander
of the Faithful being a fearful boggler at a sum.
On these occasions, the devoted Mesrour, chief of the Blacks of the
Hareem, was always in attendance (Miss Griffin usually ringing for that
officer, at the same time, with great vehemence), but never acquitted
himself in a manner worthy of his historical reputation.  In the first
place, his bringing a broom into the Divan of the Caliph, even when
Haroun wore on his shoulders the red robe of anger (Miss Pipsons
pelisse), though it might be got over for the moment, was never to be
quite satisfactorily accounted for.  In the second place, his breaking
out into grinning exclamations of Lork you pretties! was neither
Eastern nor respectful.  In the third place, when specially instructed to
say Bismillah! he always said Hallelujah!  This officer, unlike his
class, was too good-humoured altogether, kept his mouth open far too
wide, expressed approbation to an incongruous extent, and even onceit
was on the occasion of the purchase of the Fair Circassian for five
hundred thousand purses of gold, and cheap, tooembraced the Slave, the
Favourite, and the Caliph, all round.  (Parenthetically let me say God
bless Mesrour, and may there have been sons and daughters on that tender
bosom, softening many a hard day since!)
