THE TRIAL FOR MURDER. {303}
I HAVE always noticed a prevalent want of courage, even among persons of
superior intelligence and culture, as to imparting their own
psychological experiences when those have been of a strange sort.  Almost
all men are afraid that what they could relate in such wise would find no
parallel or response in a listeners internal life, and might be
suspected or laughed at.  A truthful traveller, who should have seen some
extraordinary creature in the likeness of a sea-serpent, would have no
fear of mentioning it; but the same traveller, having had some singular
presentiment, impulse, vagary of thought, vision (so-called), dream, or
other remarkable mental impression, would hesitate considerably before he
would own to it.  To this reticence I attribute much of the obscurity in
which such subjects are involved.  We do not habitually communicate our
experiences of these subjective things as we do our experiences of
objective creation.  The consequence is, that the general stock of
experience in this regard appears exceptional, and really is so, in
respect of being miserably imperfect.
In what I am going to relate, I have no intention of setting up,
opposing, or supporting, any theory whatever.  I know the history of the
Bookseller of Berlin, I have studied the case of the wife of a late
Astronomer Royal as related by Sir David Brewster, and I have followed
the minutest details of a much more remarkable case of Spectral Illusion
occurring within my private circle of friends.  It may be necessary to
state as to this last, that the sufferer (a lady) was in no degree,
however distant, related to me.  A mistaken assumption on that head might
suggest an explanation of a part of my own case,but only a part,which
would be wholly without foundation.  It cannot be referred to my
inheritance of any developed peculiarity, nor had I ever before any at
all similar experience, nor have I ever had any at all similar experience
since.
It does not signify how many years ago, or how few, a certain murder was
committed in England, which attracted great attention.  We hear more than
enough of murderers as they rise in succession to their atrocious
eminence, and I would bury the memory of this particular brute, if I
could, as his body was buried, in Newgate Jail.  I purposely abstain from
giving any direct clue to the criminals individuality.
When the murder was first discovered, no suspicion fellor I ought rather
to say, for I cannot be too precise in my facts, it was nowhere publicly
hinted that any suspicion fellon the man who was afterwards brought to
trial.  As no reference was at that time made to him in the newspapers,
it is obviously impossible that any description of him can at that time
have been given in the newspapers.  It is essential that this fact be
remembered.
Unfolding at breakfast my morning paper, containing the account of that
first discovery, I found it to be deeply interesting, and I read it with
close attention.  I read it twice, if not three times.  The discovery had
been made in a bedroom, and, when I laid down the paper, I was aware of a
flashrushflowI do not know what to call it,no word I can find is
satisfactorily descriptive,in which I seemed to see that bedroom passing
through my room, like a picture impossibly painted on a running river.
Though almost instantaneous in its passing, it was perfectly clear; so
clear that I distinctly, and with a sense of relief, observed the absence
of the dead body from the bed.
