The ancient authors, however, are unanimous in insisting that the family
is the ultimate unit of society, though, as I have said, an inductive
study of primitive races, or even the accounts given of them by
Herodotus, would have shown them that the _<U+03BD><U+03B5><U+03BF><U+03C4><U+03C4><U+03B9><U+1F70> <U+1F34><U+03B4><U+03B9><U+03B1>_ of a personal
household, to use Platos expression, is really a most complex notion
appearing always in a late stage of civilisation, along with recognition
of private property and the rights of individualism.
Philology also, which in the hands of modern investigators has proved
such a splendid instrument of research, was in ancient days studied on
principles too unscientific to be of much use.  Herodotus points out that
the word _Eridanos_ is essentially Greek in character, that consequently
the river supposed to run round the world is probably a mere Greek
invention.  His remarks, however, on language generally, as in the case
of _Piromis_ and the ending of the Persian names, show on what unsound
basis his knowledge of language rested.
In the _Baccha_ of Euripides there is an extremely interesting passage in
which the immoral stories of the Greek mythology are accounted for on the
principle of that misunderstanding of words and metaphors to which modern
science has given the name of a disease of language.  In answer to the
impious rationalism of Pentheusa sort of modern PhilistineTeiresias,
who may be termed the Max Müller of the Theban cycle, points out that the
story of Dionysus being inclosed in Zeus thigh really arose from the
linguistic confusion between _µ<U+03B7><U+03C1><U+03CC><U+03C2>_ and _<U+1F45>µ<U+03B7><U+03C1><U+03BF><U+03C2>_.
On the whole, howeverfor I have quoted these two instances only to show
the unscientific character of early philologywe may say that this
important instrument in recreating the history of the past was not really
used by the ancients as a means of historical criticism.  Nor did the
ancients employ that other method, used to such advantage in our own day,
by which in the symbolism and formulas of an advanced civilisation we can
detect the unconscious survival of ancient customs: for, whereas in the
sham capture of the bride at a marriage feast, which was common in Wales
till a recent time, we can discern the lingering reminiscence of the
barbarous habit of exogamy, the ancient writers saw only the deliberate
commemoration of an historical event.
Aristotle does not tell us by what method he discovered that the Greeks
used to buy their wives in primitive times, but, judging by his general
principles, it was probably through some legend or myth on the subject
which lasted to his own day, and not, as we would do, by arguing back
from the marriage presents given to the bride and her relatives. {37}
The origin of the common proverb worth so many beeves, in which we
discern the unconscious survival of a purely pastoral state of society
before the use of metals was known, is ascribed by Plutarch to the fact
of Theseus having coined money bearing a bulls head.  Similarly, the
Amathusian festival, in which a young man imitated the labours of a woman
in travail, is regarded by him as a rite instituted in Ariadnes honour,
and the Carian adoration of asparagus as a simple commemoration of the
adventure of the nymph Perigune.  In the first of these _we_ discern the
beginning of agnation and kinsmanship through the father, which still
lingers in the couvee of New Zealand tribes: while the second is a
relic of the totem and fetish worship of plants.
