The essential difference of their methods may be best illustrated from
those passages where they treat of the same subject.  The execution of
the Spartan heralds, Nicolaos and Aneristos, during the Peloponnesian War
is regarded by Herodotus as one of the most supernatural instances of the
workings of nemesis and the wrath of an outraged hero; while the
lengthened siege and ultimate fall of Troy was brought about by the
avenging hand of God desiring to manifest unto men the mighty penalties
which always follow upon mighty sins.  But Thucydides either sees not, or
desires not to see, in either of these events the finger of Providence,
or the punishment of wicked doers.  The death of the heralds is merely an
Athenian retaliation for similar outrages committed by the opposite side;
the long agony of the ten years siege is due merely to the want of a
good commissariat in the Greek army; while the fall of the city is the
result of a united military attack consequent on a good supply of
provisions.
Now, it is to be observed that in this latter passage, as well as
elsewhere, Thucydides is in no sense of the word a sceptic as regards his
attitude towards the truth of these ancient legends.
Agamemnon and Atreus, Theseus and Eurystheus, even Minos, about whom
Herodotus has some doubts, are to him as real personages as Alcibiades or
Gylippus.  The points in his historical criticism of the past are, first,
his rejection of all extra-natural interference, and, secondly, the
attributing to these ancient heroes the motives and modes of thought of
his own day.  The present was to him the key to the explanation of the
past, as it was to the prediction of the future.
Now, as regards his attitude towards the supernatural he is at one with
modern science.  We too know that, just as the primeval coal-beds reveal
to us the traces of rain-drops and other atmospheric phenomena similar to
those of our own day, so, in estimating the history of the past, the
introduction of no force must be allowed whose workings we cannot observe
among the phenomena around us.  To lay down canons of ultra-historical
credibility for the explanation of events which happen to have preceded
us by a few thousand years, is as thoroughly unscientific as it is to
intermingle preternatural in geological theories.
Whatever the canons of art may be, no difficulty in history is so great
as to warrant the introduction of a spirit of spirit _<U+03B8><U+03B5><U+1F78><U+03C2> <U+1F00><U+03C0><U+1F78> µ<U+03B7><U+03C7><U+03B1><U+03BD><U+1FC6><U+03C2>_,
in the sense of a violation of the laws of nature.
Upon the other point, however, Thucydides falls into an anachronism.  To
refuse to allow the workings of chivalrous and self-denying motives among
the knights of the Trojan crusade, because he saw none in the
faction-loving Athenian of his own day, is to show an entire ignorance of
the various characteristics of human nature developing under different
circumstances, and to deny to a primitive chieftain like Agamemnon that
authority founded on opinion, to which we give the name of divine right,
is to fall into an historical error quite as gross as attributing to
Atreus the courting of the populace (_<U+03C4><U+03B5><U+03B8><U+03B5><U+03C1><U+03B1><U+03C0><U+03B5><U+03C5><U+03BA><U+03CC><U+03C4><U+03B1> <U+03C4><U+1F78><U+03BD> <U+03B4><U+1FC6>µ<U+03BF><U+03BD>_) with a
view to the Mycenean throne.
