CYRIL.  But modern portraits by English painters, what of them?  Surely
they are like the people they pretend to represent?
VIVIAN.  Quite so.  They are so like them that a hundred years from now
no one will believe in them.  The only portraits in which one believes
are portraits where there is very little of the sitter, and a very great
deal of the artist.  Holbeins drawings of the men and women of his time
impress us with a sense of their absolute reality.  But this is simply
because Holbein compelled life to accept his conditions, to restrain
itself within his limitations, to reproduce his type, and to appear as he
wished it to appear.  It is style that makes us believe in a
thingnothing but style.  Most of our modern portrait painters are doomed
to absolute oblivion.  They never paint what they see.  They paint what
the public sees, and the public never sees anything.
CYRIL.  Well, after that I think I should like to hear the end of your
article.
VIVIAN.  With pleasure.  Whether it will do any good I really cannot say.
Ours is certainly the dullest and most prosaic century possible.  Why,
even Sleep has played us false, and has closed up the gates of ivory, and
opened the gates of horn.  The dreams of the great middle classes of this
country, as recorded in Mr. Myerss two bulky volumes on the subject, and
in the Transactions of the Psychical Society, are the most depressing
things that I have ever read.  There is not even a fine nightmare among
them.  They are commonplace, sordid and tedious.  As for the Church, I
cannot conceive anything better for the culture of a country than the
presence in it of a body of men whose duty it is to believe in the
supernatural, to perform daily miracles, and to keep alive that
mythopoeic faculty which is so essential for the imagination.  But in the
English Church a man succeeds, not through his capacity for belief, but
through his capacity for disbelief.  Ours is the only Church where the
sceptic stands at the altar, and where St. Thomas is regarded as the
ideal apostle.  Many a worthy clergyman, who passes his life in admirable
works of kindly charity, lives and dies unnoticed and unknown; but it is
sufficient for some shallow uneducated passman out of either University
to get up in his pulpit and express his doubts about Noahs ark, or
Balaams ass, or Jonah and the whale, for half of London to flock to hear
him, and to sit open-mouthed in rapt admiration at his superb intellect.
The growth of common sense in the English Church is a thing very much to
be regretted.  It is really a degrading concession to a low form of
realism.  It is silly, too.  It springs from an entire ignorance of
psychology.  Man can believe the impossible, but man can never believe
the improbable.  However, I must read the end of my article:
