Before this, however, he seems to have been carried away by boyish dreams
of the romance and chivalry of a soldiers life, and to have become a
young guardsman.  But the reckless dissipated life of his companions
failed to satisfy the refined artistic temperament of one who was made
for other things.  In a short time he wearied of the service.  Art, he
tells us, in words that still move many by their ardent sincerity and
strange fervour, Art touched her renegade; by her pure and high
influence the noisome mists were purged; my feelings, parched, hot, and
tarnished, were renovated with cool, fresh bloom, simple, beautiful to
the simple-hearted.  But Art was not the only cause of the change.  The
writings of Wordsworth, he goes on to say, did much towards calming the
confusing whirl necessarily incident to sudden mutations.  I wept over
them tears of happiness and gratitude.  He accordingly left the army,
with its rough barrack-life and coarse mess-room tittle-tattle, and
returned to Linden House, full of this new-born enthusiasm for culture.
A severe illness, in which, to use his own words, he was broken like a
vessel of clay, prostrated him for a time.  His delicately strung
organisation, however indifferent it might have been to inflicting pain
on others, was itself most keenly sensitive to pain.  He shrank from
suffering as a thing that mars and maims human life, and seems to have
wandered through that terrible valley of melancholia from which so many
great, perhaps greater, spirits have never emerged.  But he was
youngonly twenty-five years of ageand he soon passed out of the dead
black waters, as he called them, into the larger air of humanistic
culture.  As he was recovering from the illness that had led him almost
to the gates of death, he conceived the idea of taking up literature as
an art.  I said with John Woodvil, he cries, it were a life of gods to
dwell in such an element, to see and hear and write brave things:
    These high and gusty relishes of life
    Have no allayings of mortality.
It is impossible not to feel that in this passage we have the utterance
of a man who had a true passion for letters.  To see and hear and write
brave things, this was his aim.
Scott, the editor of the _London Magazine_, struck by the young mans
genius, or under the influence of the strange fascination that he
exercised on every one who knew him, invited him to write a series of
articles on artistic subjects, and under a series of fanciful pseudonym
he began to contribute to the literature of his day.  _Janus
Weathercock_, _Egomet Bonmot_, and _Van Vinkvooms_, were some of the
grotesque masks under which he choose to hide his seriousness or to
reveal his levity.  A mask tells us more than a face.  These disguises
intensified his personality.  In an incredibly short time he seems to
have made his mark.  Charles Lamb speaks of kind, light-hearted
Wainewright, whose prose is capital.  We hear of him entertaining
Macready, John Forster, Maginn, Talfourd, Sir Wentworth Dilke, the poet
John Clare, and others, at _a petit-dîner_.  Like Disraeli, he determined
to startle the town as a dandy, and his beautiful rings, his antique
cameo breast-pin, and his pale lemon-coloured kid gloves, were well
known, and indeed were regarded by Hazlitt as being the signs of a new
manner in literature: while his rich curly hair, fine eyes, and exquisite
white hands gave him the dangerous and delightful distinction of being
different from others.  There was something in him of Balzacs Lucien de
Rubempré.  At times he reminds us of Julien Sorel.  De Quincey saw him
once.  It was at a dinner at Charles Lambs.  Amongst the company, all
literary men, sat a murderer, he tells us, and he goes on to describe
how on that day he had been ill, and had hated the face of man and woman,
and yet found himself looking with intellectual interest across the table
at the young writer beneath whose affectations of manner there seemed to
him to lie so much unaffected sensibility, and speculates on what sudden
growth of another interest would have changed his mood, had he known of
what terrible sin the guest to whom Lamb paid so much attention was even
then guilty.
