Murder! that is what the cheiromantist had seen there.  Murder!  The very
night seemed to know it, and the desolate wind to howl it in his ear.
The dark corners of the streets were full of it.  It grinned at him from
the roofs of the houses.
First he came to the Park, whose sombre woodland seemed to fascinate him.
He leaned wearily up against the railings, cooling his brow against the
wet metal, and listening to the tremulous silence of the trees.  Murder!
murder! he kept repeating, as though iteration could dim the horror of
the word.  The sound of his own voice made him shudder, yet he almost
hoped that Echo might hear him, and wake the slumbering city from its
dreams.  He felt a mad desire to stop the casual passer-by, and tell him
everything.
Then he wandered across Oxford Street into narrow, shameful alleys.  Two
women with painted faces mocked at him as he went by.  From a dark
courtyard came a sound of oaths and blows, followed by shrill screams,
and, huddled upon a damp door-step, he saw the crook-backed forms of
poverty and eld.  A strange pity came over him.  Were these children of
sin and misery predestined to their end, as he to his?  Were they, like
him, merely the puppets of a monstrous show?
And yet it was not the mystery, but the comedy of suffering that struck
him; its absolute uselessness, its grotesque want of meaning.  How
incoherent everything seemed!  How lacking in all harmony!  He was amazed
at the discord between the shallow optimism of the day, and the real
facts of existence.  He was still very young.
After a time he found himself in front of Marylebone Church.  The silent
roadway looked like a long riband of polished silver, flecked here and
there by the dark arabesques of waving shadows.  Far into the distance
curved the line of flickering gas-lamps, and outside a little walled-in
house stood a solitary hansom, the driver asleep inside.  He walked
hastily in the direction of Portland Place, now and then looking round,
as though he feared that he was being followed.  At the corner of Rich
Street stood two men, reading a small bill upon a hoarding.  An odd
feeling of curiosity stirred him, and he crossed over.  As he came near,
the word Murder, printed in black letters, met his eye.  He started,
and a deep flush came into his cheek.  It was an advertisement offering a
reward for any information leading to the arrest of a man of medium
height, between thirty and forty years of age, wearing a billy-cock hat,
a black coat, and check trousers, and with a scar upon his right cheek.
He read it over and over again, and wondered if the wretched man would be
caught, and how he had been scarred.  Perhaps, some day, his own name
might be placarded on the walls of London.  Some day, perhaps, a price
would be set on his head also.
