After a fortnight Lord Surbiton got bored with Venice, and determined to
run down the coast to Ravenna, as he heard that there was some capital
cock-shooting in the Pinetum.  Lord Arthur at first refused absolutely to
come, but Surbiton, of whom he was extremely fond, finally persuaded him
that if he stayed at Danielis by himself he would be moped to death, and
on the morning of the 15th they started, with a strong nor-east wind
blowing, and a rather choppy sea.  The sport was excellent, and the free,
open-air life brought the colour back to Lord Arthurs cheek, but about
the 22nd he became anxious about Lady Clementina, and, in spite of
Surbitons remonstrances, came back to Venice by train.
As he stepped out of his gondola on to the hotel steps, the proprietor
came forward to meet him with a sheaf of telegrams.  Lord Arthur snatched
them out of his hand, and tore them open.  Everything had been
successful.  Lady Clementina had died quite suddenly on the night of the
17th!
His first thought was for Sybil, and he sent her off a telegram
announcing his immediate return to London.  He then ordered his valet to
pack his things for the night mail, sent his gondoliers about five times
their proper fare, and ran up to his sitting-room with a light step and a
buoyant heart.  There he found three letters waiting for him.  One was
from Sybil herself, full of sympathy and condolence.  The others were
from his mother, and from Lady Clementinas solicitor.  It seemed that
the old lady had dined with the Duchess that very night, had delighted
every one by her wit and _esprit_, but had gone home somewhat early,
complaining of heartburn.  In the morning she was found dead in her bed,
having apparently suffered no pain.  Sir Mathew Reid had been sent for at
once, but, of course, there was nothing to be done, and she was to be
buried on the 22nd at Beauchamp Chalcote.  A few days before she died she
had made her will, and left Lord Arthur her little house in Curzon
Street, and all her furniture, personal effects, and pictures, with the
exception of her collection of miniatures, which was to go to her sister,
Lady Margaret Rufford, and her amethyst necklace, which Sybil Merton was
to have.  The property was not of much value; but Mr. Mansfield, the
solicitor, was extremely anxious for Lord Arthur to return at once, if
possible, as there were a great many bills to be paid, and Lady
Clementina had never kept any regular accounts.
Lord Arthur was very much touched by Lady Clementinas kind remembrance
of him, and felt that Mr. Podgers had a great deal to answer for.  His
love of Sybil, however, dominated every other emotion, and the
consciousness that he had done his duty gave him peace and comfort.  When
he arrived at Charing Cross, he felt perfectly happy.
The Mertons received him very kindly.  Sybil made him promise that he
would never again allow anything to come between them, and the marriage
was fixed for the 7th June.  Life seemed to him once more bright and
beautiful, and all his old gladness came back to him again.
