The first thing to be done was, of course, to settle with the
cheiromantist; so he sat down at a small Sheraton writing-table that
stood near the window, drew a cheque for L105, payable to the order of
Mr. Septimus Podgers, and, enclosing it in an envelope, told his valet to
take it to West Moon Street.  He then telephoned to the stables for his
hansom, and dressed to go out.  As he was leaving the room he looked back
at Sybil Mertons photograph, and swore that, come what may, he would
never let her know what he was doing for her sake, but would keep the
secret of his self-sacrifice hidden always in his heart.
On his way to the Buckingham, he stopped at a florists, and sent Sybil a
beautiful basket of narcissus, with lovely white petals and staring
pheasants eyes, and on arriving at the club, went straight to the
library, rang the bell, and ordered the waiter to bring him a
lemon-and-soda, and a book on Toxicology.  He had fully decided that
poison was the best means to adopt in this troublesome business.
Anything like personal violence was extremely distasteful to him, and
besides, he was very anxious not to murder Lady Clementina in any way
that might attract public attention, as he hated the idea of being
lionised at Lady Windermeres, or seeing his name figuring in the
paragraphs of vulgar societynewspapers.  He had also to think of Sybils
father and mother, who were rather old-fashioned people, and might
possibly object to the marriage if there was anything like a scandal,
though he felt certain that if he told them the whole facts of the case
they would be the very first to appreciate the motives that had actuated
him.  He had every reason, then, to decide in favour of poison.  It was
safe, sure, and quiet, and did away with any necessity for painful
scenes, to which, like most Englishmen, he had a rooted objection.
Of the science of poisons, however, he knew absolutely nothing, and as
the waiter seemed quite unable to find anything in the library but
_Ruffs Guide_ and _Baileys Magazine_, he examined the book-shelves
himself, and finally came across a handsomely-bound edition of the
_Pharmacopoeia_, and a copy of Erskines _Toxicology_, edited by Sir
Mathew Reid, the President of the Royal College of Physicians, and one of
the oldest members of the Buckingham, having been elected in mistake for
somebody else; a _contretemps_ that so enraged the Committee, that when
the real man came up they black-balled him unanimously.  Lord Arthur was
a good deal puzzled at the technical terms used in both books, and had
begun to regret that he had not paid more attention to his classics at
Oxford, when in the second volume of Erskine, he found a very interesting
and complete account of the properties of aconitine, written in fairly
clear English.  It seemed to him to be exactly the poison he wanted.  It
was swiftindeed, almost immediate, in its effectperfectly painless, and
when taken in the form of a gelatine capsule, the mode recommended by Sir
Mathew, not by any means unpalatable.  He accordingly made a note, upon
his shirt-cuff, of the amount necessary for a fatal dose, put the books
back in their places, and strolled up St. Jamess Street, to Pestle and
Humbeys, the great chemists.  Mr. Pestle, who always attended personally
on the aristocracy, was a good deal surprised at the order, and in a very
deferential manner murmured something about a medical certificate being
necessary.  However, as soon as Lord Arthur explained to him that it was
for a large Norwegian mastiff that he was obliged to get rid of, as it
showed signs of incipient rabies, and had already bitten the coachman
twice in the calf of the leg, he expressed himself as being perfectly
satisfied, complimented Lord Arthur on his wonderful knowledge of
Toxicology, and had the prescription made up immediately.
