Farther around, always treading the bones and images of humans and gods
that constituted the floor of this ancient charnel-house of sacrifice, he
came upon the device by which the Red One was made to send his call
singing thunderingly across the jungle-belts and grass-lands to the far
beach of Ringmanu.  Simple and primitive was it as was the Red Ones
consummate artifice.  A great king-post, half a hundred feet in length,
seasoned by centuries of superstitious care, carven into dynasties of
gods, each superimposed, each helmeted, each seated in the open mouth of
a crocodile, was slung by ropes, twisted of climbing vegetable parasites,
from the apex of a tripod of three great forest trunks, themselves carved
into grinning and grotesque adumbrations of mans modern concepts of art
and god.  From the striker king-post, were suspended ropes of climbers to
which men could apply their strength and direction.  Like a battering
ram, this king-post could be driven end-onward against the mighty
red-iridescent sphere.
Here was where Ngurn officiated and functioned religiously for himself
and the twelve tribes under him.  Bassett laughed aloud, almost with
madness, at the thought of this wonderful messenger, winged with
intelligence across space, to fall into a bushman stronghold and be
worshipped by ape-like, man-eating and head-hunting savages.  It was as
if Gods World had fallen into the muck mire of the abyss underlying the
bottom of hell; as if Jehovahs Commandments had been presented on carved
stone to the monkeys of the monkey cage at the Zoo; as if the Sermon on
the Mount had been preached in a roaring bedlam of lunatics.
                                * * * * *
The slow weeks passed.  The nights, by election, Bassett spent on the
ashen floor of the devil-devil house, beneath the ever-swinging,
slow-curing heads.  His reason for this was that it was taboo to the
lesser sex of woman, and therefore, a refuge for him from Balatta, who
grew more persecutingly and perilously loverly as the Southern Cross rode
higher in the sky and marked the imminence of her nuptials.  His days
Bassett spent in a hammock swung under the shade of the great breadfruit
tree before the devil-devil house.  There were breaks in this programme,
when, in the comas of his devastating fever-attacks, he lay for days and
nights in the house of heads.  Ever he struggled to combat the fever, to
live, to continue to live, to grow strong and stronger against the day
when he would be strong enough to dare the grass-lands and the belted
jungle beyond, and win to the beach, and to some labour-recruiting,
black-birding ketch or schooner, and on to civilization and the men of
civilization, to whom he could give news of the message from other worlds
that lay, darkly worshipped by beastmen, in the black heart of
Guadalcanals midmost centre.
On the other nights, lying late under the breadfruit tree, Bassett spent
long hours watching the slow setting of the western stars beyond the
black wall of jungle where it had been thrust back by the clearing for
the village.  Possessed of more than a cursory knowledge of astronomy, he
took a sick mans pleasure in speculating as to the dwellers on the
unseen worlds of those incredibly remote suns, to haunt whose houses of
light, life came forth, a shy visitant, from the rayless crypts of
matter.  He could no more apprehend limits to time than bounds to space.
No subversive radium speculations had shaken his steady scientific faith
in the conservation of energy and the indestructibility of matter.
Always and forever must there have been stars.  And surely, in that
cosmic ferment, all must be comparatively alike, comparatively of the
same substance, or substances, save for the freaks of the ferment.  All
must obey, or compose, the same laws that ran without infraction through
the entire experience of man.  Therefore, he argued and agreed, must
worlds and life be appanages to all the suns as they were appanages to
the particular of his own solar system.
