He did everything righttoo right; and in dress and comportment was
inevitably correct.  Not that he was a dandy.  Far from it.  He was a
college man, in dress and carriage as like as a pea to the type that of
late years is being so generously turned out of our institutions of
higher learning.  His handshake was satisfyingly strong and stiff.  His
blue eyes were coldly blue and convincingly sincere.  His voice, firm and
masculine, clean and crisp of enunciation, was pleasant to the ear.  The
one drawback to Freddie Drummond was his inhibition.  He never unbent.
In his football days, the higher the tension of the game, the cooler he
grew.  He was noted as a boxer, but he was regarded as an automaton, with
the inhuman precision of a machine judging distance and timing blows,
guarding, blocking, and stalling.  He was rarely punished himself, while
he rarely punished an opponent.  He was too clever and too controlled to
permit himself to put a pound more weight into a punch than he intended.
With him it was a matter of exercise.  It kept him fit.
As time went by, Freddie Drummond found himself more frequently crossing
the Slot and losing himself in South of Market.  His summer and winter
holidays were spent there, and, whether it was a week or a week-end, he
found the time spent there to be valuable and enjoyable.  And there was
so much material to be gathered.  His third book, _Mass and Master_,
became a text-book in the American universities; and almost before he
knew it, he was at work on a fourth one, _The Fallacy of the
Inefficient_.
Somewhere in his make-up there was a strange twist or quirk.  Perhaps it
was a recoil from his environment and training, or from the tempered seed
of his ancestors, who had been book-men generation preceding generation;
but at any rate, he found enjoyment in being down in the working-class
world.  In his own world he was Cold-Storage, but down below he was
Big Bill Totts, who could drink and smoke, and slang and fight, and be
an all-round favourite.  Everybody liked Bill, and more than one working
girl made love to him.  At first he had been merely a good actor, but as
time went on, simulation became second nature.  He no longer played a
part, and he loved sausages, sausages and bacon, than which, in his own
proper sphere, there was nothing more loathsome in the way of food.
From doing the thing for the needs sake, he came to doing the thing for
the things sake.  He found himself regretting as the time drew near for
him to go back to his lecture-room and his inhibition.  And he often
found himself waiting with anticipation for the dreamy time to pass when
he could cross the Slot and cut loose and play the devil.  He was not
wicked, but as Big Bill Totts he did a myriad things that Freddie
Drummond would never have been permitted to do.  Moreover, Freddie
Drummond never would have wanted to do them.  That was the strangest part
of his discovery.  Freddie Drummond and Bill Totts were two totally
different creatures.  The desires and tastes and impulses of each ran
counter to the others.  Bill Totts could shirk at a job with clear
conscience, while Freddie Drummond condemned shirking as vicious,
criminal, and un-American, and devoted whole chapters to condemnation of
the vice.  Freddie Drummond did not care for dancing, but Bill Totts
never missed the nights at the various dancing clubs, such as The
Magnolia, The Western Star, and The Elite; while he won a massive silver
cup, standing thirty inches high, for being the best-sustained character
at the Butchers and Meat Workers annual grand masked ball.  And Bill
Totts liked the girls and the girls liked him, while Freddie Drummond
enjoyed playing the ascetic in this particular, was open in his
opposition to equal suffrage, and cynically bitter in his secret
condemnation of coeducation.
