All right, said Long-Fang, then will I, too, be a strong man.  And
he got himself corn, and began to make fire-brew and sell it for strings
of money.  And, when Crooked-Eyes complained, Long-Fang said that he was
himself a strong man, and that if Crooked-Eyes made any more noise he
would bash his brains out for him.  Whereat Crooked-Eyes was afraid and
went and talked with Three-Legs and Pig-Jaw.  And all three went and
talked to Dog-Tooth.  And Dog-Tooth spoke to Sea-Lion, and Sea-Lion sent
a runner with a message to Tiger-Face.  And Tiger-Face sent his guards,
who burned Long-Fangs house along with the fire-brew he had made.  Also,
they killed him and all his family.  And Big-Fat said it was good, and
the Bug sang another song about how good it was to observe the law, and
what a fine land the Sea Valley was, and how every man who loved the Sea
Valley should go forth and kill the bad Meat-Eaters.  And again his song
was as fire to us, and we forgot to grumble.
It was very strange.  When Little-Belly caught too many fish, so that it
took a great many to sell for a little money, he threw many of the fish
back into the sea, so that more money would be paid for what was left.
And Three-Legs often let many large fields lie idle so as to get more
money for his corn.  And the women, making so much money out of shell
that much money was needed to buy with, Dog-Tooth stopped the making of
money.  And the women had no work, so they took the places of the men.  I
worked on the fish-trap, getting a string of money every five days.  But
my sister now did my work, getting a string of money for every ten days.
The women worked cheaper, and there was less food, and Tiger-Face said we
should become guards.  Only I could not become a guard because I was lame
of one leg and Tiger-Face would not have me.  And there were many like
me.  We were broken men and only fit to beg for work or to take care of
the babies while the women worked.
Yellow-Head, too, was made hungry by the recital and broiled a piece of
bear-meat on the coals.
But why didnt you rise up, all of you, and kill Three-Legs and Pig-Jaw
and Big-Fat and the rest and get enough to eat? Afraid-in-the-Dark
demanded.
Because we could not understand, Long-Beard answered.  There was too
much to think about, and, also, there were the guards sticking spears
into us, and Big-Fat talking about God, and the Bug singing new songs.
And when any man did think right, and said so, Tiger-Face and the guards
got him, and he was tied out to the rocks at low tide so that the rising
waters drowned him.
It was a strange thingthe money.  It was like the Bugs songs.  It
seemed all right, but it wasnt, and we were slow to understand.
Dog-Tooth began to gather the money in.  He put it in a big pile, in a
grass house, with guards to watch it day and night.  And the more money
he piled in the house the dearer money became, so that a man worked a
longer time for a string of money than before.  Then, too, there was
always talk of war with the Meat-Eaters, and Dog-Tooth and Tiger-Face
filled many houses with corn, and dried fish, and smoked goat-meat, and
cheese.  And with the food, piled there in mountains the people had not
enough to eat.  But what did it matter?  Whenever the people grumbled too
loudly the Bug sang a new song, and Big-Fat said it was Gods word that
we should kill Meat-Eaters, and Tiger-Face led us over the divide to kill
and be killed.  I was not good enough to be a guard and lie fat in the
sun, but, when we made war, Tiger-Face was glad to take me along.  And
when we had eaten, all the food stored in the houses we stopped fighting
and went back to work to pile up more food.
