The wedding was two weeks off, when, one afternoon, in San Francisco,
Catherine Van Vorst picked him up and whisked him away to see a Boys
Club, recently instituted by the settlement workers in whom she was
interested.  It was her brothers machine, but they were alone with the
exception of the chauffeur.  At the junction with Kearny Street, Market
and Geary Streets intersect like the sides of a sharp-angled letter V.
They, in the auto, were coming down Market with the intention of
negotiating the sharp apex and going up Geary.  But they did not know
what was coming down Geary, timed by fate to meet them at the apex.
While aware from the papers that the Meat Strike was on and that it was
an exceedingly bitter one, all thought of it at that moment was farthest
from Freddie Drummonds mind.  Was he not seated beside Catherine?  And
besides, he was carefully expositing to her his views on settlement
workviews that Bill Totts adventures had played a part in formulating.
Coming down Geary Street were six meat waggons.  Beside each scab driver
sat a policeman.  Front and rear, and along each side of this procession,
marched a protecting escort of one hundred police.  Behind the police
rearguard, at a respectful distance, was an orderly but vociferous mob,
several blocks in length, that congested the street from sidewalk to
sidewalk.  The Beef Trust was making an effort to supply the hotels, and,
incidentally, to begin the breaking of the strike.  The St. Francis had
already been supplied, at a cost of many broken windows and broken heads,
and the expedition was marching to the relief of the Palace Hotel.
All unwitting, Drummond sat beside Catherine, talking settlement work, as
the auto, honking methodically and dodging traffic, swung in a wide curve
to get around the apex.  A big coal waggon, loaded with lump coal and
drawn by four huge horses, just debouching from Kearny Street as though
to turn down Market, blocked their way.  The driver of the waggon seemed
undecided, and the chauffeur, running slow but disregarding some shouted
warning from the crossing policemen, swerved the auto to the left,
violating the traffic rules, in order to pass in front of the waggon.
At that moment Freddie Drummond discontinued his conversation.  Nor did
he resume it again, for the situation was developing with the rapidity of
a transformation scene.  He heard the roar of the mob at the rear, and
caught a glimpse of the helmeted police and the lurching meat waggons.
At the same moment, laying on his whip, and standing up to his task, the
coal driver rushed horses and waggon squarely in front of the advancing
procession, pulled the horses up sharply, and put on the big brake.  Then
he made his lines fast to the brake-handle and sat down with the air of
one who had stopped to stay.  The auto had been brought to a stop, too,
by his big panting leaders which had jammed against it.
