Charley looked at me.  The _Reindeer_ was lying in a snug place.  We had
nothing on hand in the way of patrol work till midnight.  With the wind
then blowing, we could sail the yacht into Benicia in a couple of hours,
have several more hours ashore, and come back to the smelter on the
evening train.
All right, captain, Charley said to the disconsolate yachtsman, who
smiled in sickly fashion at the title.
Im only the owner, he explained.
We rowed him aboard in much better style than he had come ashore, and saw
for ourselves the helplessness of the passengers.  There were a dozen men
and women, and all of them too sick even to appear grateful at our
coming.  The yacht was rolling savagely, broad on, and no sooner had the
owners feet touched the deck than he collapsed and joined, the others.
Not one was able to bear a hand, so Charley and I between us cleared the
badly tangled running gear, got up sail, and hoisted anchor.
It was a rough trip, though a swift one.  The Carquinez Straits were a
welter of foam and smother, and we came through them wildly before the
wind, the big mainsail alternately dipping and flinging its boom skyward
as we tore along.  But the people did not mind.  They did not mind
anything.  Two or three, including the owner, sprawled in the cockpit,
shuddering when the yacht lifted and raced and sank dizzily into the
trough, and between-whiles regarding the shore with yearning eyes.  The
rest were huddled on the cabin floor among the cushions.  Now and again
some one groaned, but for the most part they were as limp as so many dead
persons.
As the bight at Turners Shipyard opened out, Charley edged into it to
get the smoother water.  Benicia was in view, and we were bowling along
over comparatively easy water, when a speck of a boat danced up ahead of
us, directly in our course.  It was low-water slack.  Charley and I
looked at each other.  No word was spoken, but at once the yacht began a
most astonishing performance, veering and yawing as though the greenest
of amateurs was at the wheel.  It was a sight for sailormen to see.  To
all appearances, a runaway yacht was careering madly over the bight, and
now and again yielding a little bit to control in a desperate effort to
make Benicia.
The owner forgot his seasickness long enough to look anxious.  The speck
of a boat grew larger and larger, till we could see Big Alec and his
partner, with a turn of the sturgeon line around a cleat, resting from
their labor to laugh at us.  Charley pulled his souwester over his eyes,
and I followed his example, though I could not guess the idea he
evidently had in mind and intended to carry into execution.
We came foaming down abreast of the skiff, so close that we could hear
above the wind the voices of Big Alec and his mate as they shouted at us
with all the scorn that professional watermen feel for amateurs,
especially when amateurs are making fools of themselves.
