Oh, what a fluttering of luminous images and actions!  In a few short
minutes of loosed subconsciousness I have sat in the halls of kings,
above the salt and below the salt, been fool and jester, man-at-arms,
clerk and monk; and I have been ruler above all at the head of the
table--temporal power in my own sword arm, in the thickness of my castle
walls, and the numbers of my fighting men; spiritual power likewise mine
by token of the fact that cowled priests and fat abbots sat beneath me
and swigged my wine and swined my meat.
I have worn the iron collar of the serf about my neck in cold climes; and
I have loved princesses of royal houses in the tropic-warmed and
sun-scented night, where black slaves fanned the sultry air with fans of
peacock plumes, while from afar, across the palm and fountains, drifted
the roaring of lions and the cries of jackals.  I have crouched in chill
desert places warming my hands at fires builded of camel's dung; and I
have lain in the meagre shade of sun-parched sage-brush by dry
water-holes and yearned dry-tongued for water, while about me,
dismembered and scattered in the alkali, were the bones of men and beasts
who had yearned and died.
I have been sea-cuny and bravo, scholar and recluse.  I have pored over
hand-written pages of huge and musty tomes in the scholastic quietude and
twilight of cliff-perched monasteries, while beneath on the lesser
slopes, peasants still toiled beyond the end of day among the vines and
olives and drove in from pastures the blatting goats and lowing kine;
yes, and I have led shouting rabbles down the wheel-worn, chariot-rutted
paves of ancient and forgotten cities; and, solemn-voiced and grave as
death, I have enunciated the law, stated the gravity of the infraction,
and imposed the due death on men, who, like Darrell Standing in Folsom
Prison, had broken the law.
Aloft, at giddy mastheads oscillating above the decks of ships, I have
gazed on sun-flashed water where coral-growths iridesced from profounds
of turquoise deeps, and conned the ships into the safety of mirrored
lagoons where the anchors rumbled down close to palm-fronded beaches of
sea-pounded coral rock; and I have striven on forgotten battlefields of
the elder days, when the sun went down on slaughter that did not cease
and that continued through the night-hours with the stars shining down
and with a cool night wind blowing from distant peaks of snow that failed
to chill the sweat of battle; and again, I have been little Darrell
Standing, bare-footed in the dew-lush grass of spring on the Minnesota
farm, chilblained when of frosty mornings I fed the cattle in their
breath-steaming stalls, sobered to fear and awe of the splendour and
terror of God when I sat on Sundays under the rant and preachment of the
New Jerusalem and the agonies of hell-fire.
Now, the foregoing were the glimpses and glimmerings that came to me,
when, in Cell One of Solitary in San Quentin, I stared myself unconscious
by means of a particle of bright, light-radiating straw.  How did these
things come to me?  Surely I could not have manufactured them out of
nothing inside my pent walls any more than could I have manufactured out
of nothing the thirty-five pounds of dynamite so ruthlessly demanded of
me by Captain Jamie, Warden Atherton, and the Prison Board of Directors.
