Least I be thought severe in my Animadversions upon the _Spanish_
Proceedings in the _West-Indies_, in respect to their Dealings with us; I
shall mention an Instance or two, wherein I'll be as concise as possible,
and then transcribe some original Letters from the Governor of _Jamaica_,
and an Officer of a Man of War, to the _Alcaldees_ of _Trinidado_, on the
Island of _Cuba_, with their Answers, translated into _English_, and then
proceed to the particular Histories of the Pyrates and their Crews, that
have made most Noise in the World in _our own Times_.
About _March_ 1722, one of our Men of War trading upon the Coast, _viz._
the _Greyhound_ Galley, Captain _Walron_, the said Captain invited some of
the Merchants to Dinner, who with their Attendants and Friends came on
Board to the Number of 16 or 18 in all; and having concerted Measures,
about six or eight dined in the Cabin, and the rest were waiting on the
Deck. While the Captain and his Guests were at Dinner, the Boatswain Pipes
for the Ship's Company to dine; accordingly the Men take their Platters,
receive their Provisions, and down they go between Decks, leaving only 4 or
5 Hands besides the _Spaniards_, above, who were immediately dispatched by
them, and the Hatches laid on the rest; those in the Cabin were as ready as
their Companions, for they pulled out their Pistols and shot the Captain,
Surgeon and another dead, and grievously wounded the Lieutenant; but he
getting out of the Window upon a Side-Ladder, thereby saved his Life, and
so they made themselves Masters of the Ship in an Instant: But by
accidental good Fortune, she was recovered before she was carry'd off; for
Captain _Walron_ having mann'd a Sloop with 30 Hands out of his Ship's
Company, had sent her to Windward some Days before, also for Trade, which
the _Spaniards_ knew very well; and just as the Action was over they saw
this Sloop coming down, before the Wind, towards their Ship; upon which the
_Spaniards_ took about 10000 _l._ in Specie, as I am informed, quitted the
Ship, and went off in their Launch unmolested.
About the same Time, a _Guard le Coast_, of _Porto Rico_, commanded by one
_Matthew Luke_, an Italian, took four _English_ Vessels, and murthered all
the Crews: He was taken by the _Lanceston_ Man of War, in _May_ 1722, and
brought to _Jamaica_, were they were all but seven deservedly hanged. It is
likely the Man of War might not have meddled with her, but that she blindly
laid the _Lanceston_ on Board, thinking she had been a Merchant Ship, who
thereupon catched a Tartar. Afterwards in rummaging there was found a
Cartridge of Powder made up with a Piece of an _English_ Journal,
belonging, I believe, to the _Crean_ Snow; and upon Examination, at last,
it was discovered that they had taken this Vessel and murthered the Crew;
and one of the _Spaniards_, when he came to die, confessed that he had
killed twenty _English_ Men with his own Hands.
