It was very strange to observe that in this particular week, from the
4th to the 11th of July, when, as I have observed, there died near 400
of the plague in the two parishes of St Martin and St Giles-in-the-
Fields only, there died in the parish of Aldgate but four, in the parish
of Whitechappel three, in the parish of Stepney but one.
Likewise in the next week, from the 11th of July to the 18th, when the
week's bill was 1761, yet there died no more of the plague, on the whole
Southwark side of the water, than sixteen. But this face of things soon
changed, and it began to thicken in Cripplegate parish especially, and
in Clarkenwell; so that by the second week in August, Cripplegate parish
alone buried 886, and Clarkenwell 155. Of the first, 850 might well be
reckoned to die of the plague; and of the last, the bill itself said 145
were of the plague.
During the month of July, and while, as I have observed, our part of the
town seemed to be spared in comparison of the west part, I went
ordinarily about the streets, as my business required, and particularly
went generally once in a day, or in two days, into the city, to my
brother's house, which he had given me charge of, and to see if it was
safe; and having the key in my pocket, I used to go into the house, and
over most of the rooms, to see that all was well; for though it be
something wonderful to tell, that any should have hearts so hardened in
the midst of such a calamity as to rob and steal, yet certain it is that
all sorts of villainies, and even levities and debaucheries, were then
practised in the town as openly as ever--I will not say quite as
frequently, because the numbers of people were many ways lessened.
But the city itself began now to be visited too, I mean within the
walls; but the number of people there were indeed extremely lessened by
so great a multitude having been gone into the country; and even all
this month of July they continued to flee, though not in such multitudes
as formerly. In August, indeed, they fled in such a manner that I began
to think there would be really none but magistrates and servants left in
the city.
As they fled now out of the city, so I should observe that the Court
removed early, viz., in the month of June, and went to Oxford, where it
pleased God to preserve them; and the distemper did not, as I heard of,
so much as touch them, for which I cannot say that I ever saw they
showed any great token of thankfulness, and hardly anything of
reformation, though they did not want being told that their crying vices
might without breach of charity be said to have gone far in bringing
that terrible judgement upon the whole nation.
