Then I caused my commissioner letter of mart to be read to them all, by
which it appeared that I was really chief commander of the ship, and had
a right to direct the voyage as I thought best; with a paper of written
instructions, signed by the owners and adventurers, and directed to me,
with another paper of instructions to all the officers, to be directed
by me in all things; which, indeed, was all news to them, for they did
not think I was the chief captain or commander of the ship and voyage.
When I had done this, I gave them a long and full account of the reasons
why I thought it best, as our present circumstances were stated, not to
go to the South Seas first, but to go away to the Philippine Islands,
and what great prospect of advantage to the owners there was, as well as
to the men; and that I wondered much that such measures were taken in
the ship as I heard there were; and that I was not, they might see,
unprovided of means to reduce every one of them to their duty by force,
and to punish those that were guilty, as they deserved, but that I
rather desired to win them with kindness; and that, therefore, I had
resolved, that if any of them had any reason to dislike the voyage, they
should be safely set on shore, and suffered to go to the second mate and
his comrades: and farther, I told them what circumstances they were in
and how effectually they were secured.
This astonished them, and surprised them exceedingly, and some of them
inquired more particularly into the circumstances of the said second
mate and his fellows: I told them they were safe enough, and should
remain so; for, as I could prove they had all a villanous design to run
away with the ship, and set me on shore, either here, or in a worse
place, I thought that only upon account of my own safety, such men were
not fit to go in the ship, being once capable to entertain such horrid
mischievous thoughts, or that could be guilty of such a villany; and
that, if any of them were of their minds, they were very welcome, if
they thought fit, to go to them.
At this offer, some bold rogues upon the forecastle, which I did not
discern, by reason of the number that stood there, cried out, _One and
all_, which was a cry, at the same time, of mutiny and rebellion, that
was certain, and in its kind very dangerous.
However, to let them see I was not to be daunted with it, I called out
to one of the men among them, whom I saw upon the forecastle; You Jones,
said I, tell me who they are, and come away from them, for I will make
an example of them, whoever they are. Will Jones slunk in among the
rest, and made me no answer, and immediately _One and all_ was cried
again, and a little huzza with it, and some of the men appeared to have
fire-arms with them. There was a great many of them, and I presently
foresaw, that, if I went to the extremity, I should spoil the voyage,
though I conquered them; so I bridled my passion with all my power, and
said calmly, Very well, gentlemen, let me know what you mean by _one and
all_? I offered any of you that did not like to go the voyage to quit
the ship; is that what you intend by _one and all_? If so, you are
welcome, and pray take care to do it immediately; as for what chests or
clothes you have in the ship, you shall have them all with you. Upon
this I made the chief mate, who was now come to me again, advance a
little with some more men, and get between the men upon the forecastle
and those who were upon the main deck; and, as if he had wanted room,
when he had gotten between them, he said to them, Stand aft a little,
gentlemen, and so crowded them towards me.
