Upon this, I told him, I would name the chief mate, the French captain,
and the supercargo, and in the mean time, I bade him not be too much
surprised, for that I had already some warning of the scheme which I
believed he had to tell me of, and that I was preparing all things to
disappoint it: that, however, I should not value his fidelity the less,
and that he might speak freely his mind before those men, for they were
all in the secret already, and he might be sure both of protection and
reward.
Accordingly, I bade him go out upon the quarter-deck, and walk there,
and that, when the chief mate went off into the roundhouse, he should go
down between decks as if he was going into his cabin to sleep, and that,
when he heard the chief mate call the cabin boy, a black of mine, whose
name was Spartivento, he should take that for a signal that the steerage
was clear, and he might come up, and should be let into the great cabin;
all which was so managed, and in so short a time, that he was with us in
the great cabin in a quarter of an hour after the first conference, and
none of the men perceived it.
Here he let me into the whole secret, and a wicked scheme it was; viz.,
that the second mate, the gunner, three midshipmen, the cockswain, and
about six-and-thirty of the men, had resolved to mutiny, and seize upon
all us who were in the new project, as they called it; and to confine us
first, then to set us on shore, either there where we were, or
somewhere else, and so carry the ship away to the South Seas, and then
to do as they found convenient; that is to say, in a word, to seize upon
me, the other captain, the French captain, the supercargo, the chief
mate, doctor, and carpenter, with some others, and run away with the
ship.
He told me, that they had not fully concluded on all their measures, nor
gained so many of the men as they intended; that they were to sound some
more of the men the next morning, and, as soon as they had made their
number up fifty, they were resolved to make the attempt, which they did
not question would be by Thursday, and this was Monday morning; and
that, if they were then ready, they would make the onset at changing the
watch the same evening. He added, that, as they were to go on shore the
next morning for fresh water, I should know the truth of it by this;
that the second mate would come to me, and tell me that they wanted more
water, and to know if I pleased the boats should go on shore, and that,
if I chose it, he would go with them, or any else whom I pleased to
appoint; and that, upon supposition that I would leave it to him, to
take those he thought fit to go with him, he would then take occasion to
choose the principal conspirators, that they might, when they were on
shore, conclude upon the measures they intended to pursue.
