One of the midshipmen followed the mate, and said, We were all promised
that another ship should be gotten, either purchased or taken, and that
the first ship we took, should be manned and victualled out of this
ship, where we were double manned, and crowded together enough to bring
an infection among us, in such hot climates as we are going into; and
if we were in the South Seas, we should easily buy a ship, or take a
ship for our purpose, almost where we would; but in all this part of the
world there is no such thing as a ship fit for an Englishman to set his
foot in. We were promised, too, that when we got into such a ship, we
that entered as midshipmen should be preferred to offices, as we were
qualified, and as our merit should recommend us. What they are going to
do with us now, I cannot imagine, unless it be to turn us afore the
mast, when half the foremast men are dead, and thrown overboard.
The master, or pilot of the ship, heard all these things, and sent us
word into the great cabin of all that passed, and, in short, assured us,
that, if these things went a little farther, he was afraid they would
come up to a mutiny; that there was great danger of it already, and that
we ought to apply some immediate remedy to it, or else he thought it
would be too late. He told me the particulars also, and how the whole
weight of their resentment seemed to tend to quarrelling at my command,
as believing that this project of going to the East Indies was wholly
mine; and that the rest of the officers being a little influenced by the
accident of our being driven so far out of our way, were only biassed in
the rest by my opinion; and, as they were all against it before, would
have been so still, if it had not been for me; and he feared, if they
went on, they might enter into some fatal measures about me, and perhaps
resolve to set me on shore in some barren uninhabited land or other, to
give me my bellyful of new discoveries, as it seems some of them had
hinted, and the second mate in particular.
I was far from being insensible of the danger I was in, and indeed of
the danger the whole voyage, ship and all, was in; for I made no
question, but that, if their brutish rage led them to one villanous
action, they would soon go on to another; and the devil would take hold
of that handle to represent the danger of their being punished for it
when they came home; and so, as has been often the case, prompt them to
mutiny against all command, and run away with the ship.
However, I had presence of mind enough to enter into prompt measures for
our general safety, and to prevent the worse, in case of any attempt
upon me. First, I represented the case to the rest of the gentlemen and
asked if they would stand by me, and by the resolutions which we had
taken for the voyage; then I called into our assistance the chief mate,
who was a kinsman of one of our owners, a bold resolute gentleman, and a
purser, who we knew was faithful to us; as also the surgeon and the
carpenter. I engaged them all to give me first their opinions whether
they were convinced of the reasonableness of my scheme for the voyage I
had proposed; and that they might judge for themselves, laid it all
before them again, arguing every part of it so clearly to them, that
they were convinced entirely of its being the most rational prospect of
the voyage for us, of any we could go about.
