It was the chief mate and the midshipman who took them all down the
scuttle, that brought me this account from them: so I made him take two
of those penitent mutineers with him, and go to the men in the steerage,
whom he had made prisoners at first, and see whether their delusions
were of the same kind, and what kind of temper they were in;
accordingly, he went to them directly, for this was not a business that
admitted giving them time to club and cabal together, and form other
societies or combinations which might have consequences fatal to us
still.
When he came to them, he told them, the captain was willing to do all
the justice possible to his men, and to use them, on all occasions, with
equity and kindness; that I had ordered him to inquire calmly what it
was had moved them to these disorders, and what it was which they had
been made to believe was doing, that they could enter into measures so
destructive to themselves, and to those who had intrusted them all with
the ship and cargo; for that, in a voyage, every foremast-man, in his
degree, is trusted with the safety of the whole ship.
They answered it was the second mate; that they had never shown
themselves discontented, much less disorderly, in the ship; that they
had, on all occasions, done their duty through the whole voyage till
now; and that they had no ill design upon any one, much less had they
any design to destroy the voyage, or injure the captain; but that they
were all told by the second mate, that the captain had imposed upon
them, by proposing a mad voyage to the south pole, that would be the
death of them all, and that they were to lay aside the trading and
cruising voyages which they came out upon, and were now to spend the
whole voyage in new discoveries; by which the men could propose nothing
to themselves but hardships, and perhaps perishing with hunger and cold;
whereas, had they gone to the South Seas as was intended, they might all
have been made; and that the hazards, with that prospect, had some
consolation in them; whereas, in this project, there was nothing but
certain destruction.
The mate delivered them a copy of the scheme I had proposed, the reasons
of it, the trade I had designed, the return I was to make, and
everything, as I have already mentioned, and bade them take it and
consider of it.
As I was justly provoked to see how I had been abused and misrepresented
to the men, so they were astonished when they read my scheme, and saw
what mischiefs they had been led into, for they knew not what, and
without any reason or just consideration: and, after they had debated
things awhile among themselves, they desired the chief mate might come
to them again, which he did; then they told him, that as they had been
thus grossly abused, and drawn into mischiefs which they never designed,
by such plausible pretences, and by being told such a long story full of
lies, and to carry on an infernal project of the second mate's, they
hoped their being so much imposed upon would a little extenuate their
fault; that they were convinced the captain had proposed nothing but
what was very rational, and a voyage that might be very profitable to
the owners and to every individual; and they entirely threw themselves
upon the captain's mercy, and humbly begged pardon; that, if I pleased
to forgive them, they would endeavour to merit such forgiveness by their
future behaviour; and that, in the mean time, they submitted to what
punishment I pleased to lay upon them: and, particularly, that, as they
had forfeited, by their conspiracy, all the claims they had upon the
ship, and might justly have been turned on shore at the first land they
came to, they were willing to sign a discharge for all their wages due
to them, which was now near eight months a man, and to be considered for
the rest of the voyage as they deserved: that they would all take a
solemn oath of fidelity to me to do their duty, to go wherever I would
carry them, and to behave with the greatest submission and diligence, in
hopes to regain my favour by their future behaviour, and to show their
gratitude for the pardon I should grant them.
