This I told them was indeed what had not been practised, nor at any
other time would it be practicable: for as it was not usual for any
ships to go from the East Indies to the Philippines, so neither was it
usual for any European ships to trade with freedom in the South Seas,
till, since the late war, when the French had the privilege; and I could
not but be amazed that the French had never gone this way, where they
might have made three or four voyages in one, and with much less hazard
of meeting with the English or Dutch cruisers; and have made twice the
profits which they made the other way, where they were frequently out
three or four years upon one return; whereas here they might make no
less than three returns, or perhaps four, in the same voyage and in much
less time.
They were now a little surprised, for in all our first debates we had
nothing of this matter brought in question; only they entertained a
notion that I was going upon strange projects to make discoveries,
search for the South pole, plant new colonies, and I know not how many
whims of their own, which were neither in my design, or in my
instructions. The person, therefore, who was our supercargo, and the
other captain, whose name I have not mentioned, together with the French
Captain, Merlotte, and the rest, who had all opposed me before, came
cheerfully into my proposal; only the supercargo told me, in the name of
the rest, that he began to be more sensible of the advantages of the
voyage I had proposed, than he was before; but that, as he was equally
intrusted with me in the government of the trading part, he begged I
would not take it ill, that he desired I would let him farther into that
particular, and explain myself, at least as far as I thought proper.
This was so just a request, and so easy for me to do, and, above all,
was made with so much good manners and courtesy, that I told him, if I
had been otherwise determined, the courteous and good-humoured way with
which he required it, would constrain me to it; but that, however, I was
very ready to do it, as he was intrusted with the cargo jointly with me,
and that it was a piece of justice to the owners, that whom they thought
fit to trust I should trust also; upon this I told him my scheme, which
was as follows:
First, I said, that, as the Philippine Islands received all their
European goods from Acapulco, in America, by the king of Spain's ships,
they were obliged to give what price was imposed upon them by the
merchants, who brought those goods by so many stages to Acapulco. For
example, the European goods, or suppose English goods in particular,
with which they were loaden, went first from England to Cadiz, from
Cadiz by the galleons to Porto Bello, from Porto Bello, to Panama, from
Panama to Acapulco; in all which places the merchants had their several
commissions and other profits upon the sale; besides the extravagant
charges of so many several ways of carriage, some by water, some by
land, and besides the king's customs in all those places; and that,
after all this, they were brought by sea from Acapulco to the Philippine
Islands, which was a prodigious voyage, and were then generally sold in
the Philippine Islands at three hundred per cent. advance.
