This satisfied them fully, and they went immediately with the news to
the men, as what they thought would please them wonderfully, seeing they
were mighty uneasy but two or three days before, about their being to go
back again to the south of America, and the latitude of 64 deg., where we
had not only been twice driven back, as if heaven had forbidden us to
pass that way, but had been driven so far to the south, that we had met
with a most severe cold, and which pinched our men exceedingly, who
being come, as we might say, a hot-weather voyage, were but ill
furnished for the state of the air usual in the latitudes of 64 deg..
But we had a harder task to go through than we expected, upon this
occasion; and it may stand here upon record, as a buoy or beacon to warn
officers and commanders of ships, supercargoes, and such as are trusted
in the conduct of the voyage, never to have any disputes among
themselves, (I say not among themselves), about the course they shall
take, or whither they shall go; for it never fails to come among the men
after them, and if the debate is but named on the outside of the great
cabin door, it becomes immediately a dispute among the officers upon the
quarter-deck, the lieutenants, mates, purser, &c.; from thence it gets
afore the mast, and into the cook room, and the whole ship is
immediately divided into factions and parties; every foremast man is a
captain, or a director to the captain; every boatswain, gunner,
carpenter, cockswain, nay, and even the cook, sets up for a leader of
the men; and if two of them join parties, it is ten to one but it comes
to a mutiny, and perhaps to one of the two last extremities of all
mutinies, viz., running away from the ship, or, what is worse, running
away with the ship.
Our case was exactly thus, and had issued accordingly, for aught I know,
if we had not been in a port where, we got immediate assistance, and
that by a more than ordinary vigour in the management too.
I have mentioned the first time when we called a council about our
voyage at the Canaries, and how it was carried against my opinion not to
go to the East Indies, but to go to the South Seas, about by Cape Horn.
As the debate of this was not at all concealed, the officers of the
ship, viz., the two lieutenants and two mates, the purser, and others,
came in, and went out, and not only heard all we said, but talked of it
at liberty on the quarter-deck, and where they pleased, till it went
among the whole ship's crew. It is true, there came nothing of all this
at that time, because almost all the votes being against my opinion, as
I have said already, the ship's company seemed to join in naturally with
it, and the men were so talked into the great prospects of gain to
themselves, by a voyage to the South Seas, that they looked upon me, who
ought to have had the chief direction in the business, to be nobody, and
to have only made a ridiculous proposal, tending to hurt them; and I
perceived clearly after this, that they looked upon me with an evil eye,
as one that was against their interest; nay, and treated me with a sort
of contempt too, as one that had no power to hurt them, but as one, that
if things were left to me, would carry them on a wildgoosechase they
knew not whither.
