After this troublesome Business was over, I began to enjoy my self a
little in the Diversions of _Paris_; and by the Assistance of my
Brother-in-law, I had a good Guide in him to view several of the
Curiosities that City abounds with, though I cannot say I took any
extraordinary relish that way, for my Thoughts being chiefly upon War, I
digested other Matters as a nice Appetite does improper Food. It was my
Intention to go over to _Ireland_, and to made that undertaking less
chargeable to me, I endeavour'd to procure a Commission, which was no
difficult matter at that Time, especially to one who was provided with a
little Money to facilitate the Grant. I did not stick much upon the
Nature of the Commission, for my Years, and small Experience could make
no very extraordinary Demands; so I was Registred as a Lieutenant, which
I, according to the usual Custom, upon receival dexterously improv'd
into Captain. Indeed I had very lofty Expectations, and the Affairs of
King _James_ went so well at that time in _Ireland_, that there was not
a Footman who follow'd that Prince, but look'd upon his Fortune as made.
These Considerations put me and some others upon a Project of
transporting our selves to the _North_ of _England_, where King _James_
had a very strong Party, and we were inform'd that immediately upon the
Reduction of _Ireland_, as before, the whole Strength of his Army wou'd
power in upon _England_ that way. A Day was fix'd to put my Design in
Execution, but falling into Discourse a little after with a Person of
Experience, he intimated that the Business wou'd not be so near over in
_Ireland_ as I imagin'd; for I can assure you, says he, Three Expresses
have arrived lately at _Versailles_, to solicit the _French_ Court for
Cannon and Ammunition, without which it wou'd be impossible for King
_James's_ Forces to become Masters in _Ireland_, but that the _French_
were so dilatory in this Affair upon some Politick Views, that it was
great Odds that Nation wou'd be quickly recover'd by King _William_'s
Forces. This was a misterious Insinuation to one of my small Experience,
for my shallow Brain told me, Expedition was the Business of War;
whereas I found afterwards it was the Interest of _France_ to spin on
the _Irish_ War, and to order Things so, that King _William_ should
always have an Army employ'd there; for they look'd upon it as a
Chimerical Notion, that the War could be carry'd on into _England_, or
that an _Irish_ Army was capable to reduce _England_; for _France_ knew
very well their own Designs of not intending to send any _French_ Troops
to joyn them in _England_.
I own I never entirely forgot the Reflexion that Gentleman made upon the
present Posture of Affairs; but yet I cannot say I assented to his
Opinion, however, it wrought so much upon me as to alter my Resolutions
of going directly into the _North_ of _England_; for I govern'd my self
by this Dilemma, that in Case _Ireland_ was not reduc'd till I came
there, I might have the Opportunity of having a share in the Reduction,
but if it was, the Passage between the _North_ of _Ireland_ and
_England_ was very short. Upon this Bottom I began my Journey, I took
Shipping at _Brest_ and landed at _Cork_, pursuing the rest of my
Journey by Land, upon account of the Danger I was inform'd of in going
by Sea; for that several _English_ Men of War guarded the narrow Seas
between _Dublin_ and _Holy-head_. When I came into King _James_'s Army,
my first Enquiry was after my Brother, whom you may be sure I
entertain'd in the first place with the Consequence of his Duel at
_Paris_; and though he often sigh'd to reflect upon his Misfortune in
being the occasion of the _French_ Officer's Death, which might have
been honourably avoided; yet he laugh'd plentifully, when he heard the
Part I had afterwards in that Melancholy Farce; and rally'd me home when
I insisted upon Charges and desired to be reimburs'd with Sixty _Louis
d'Ors_, which that Affair had cost me upon his Account; all the
Satisfaction I could get was, that he thought I put a greater Value upon
my being his Brother, than to think it over-rated at that trifling Sum:
The Life of a Brother, said he, is the only thing that can answer for a
Brotherly Affection.
