We cou'd not content our selves with a single Nights Lodging in _Lyons_,
that City is furnish'd with too many Rarities for the amusement of
Strangers, not to partake of a little more of their Money than any
Vulgar Inn upon the Road. And as we none of us desired to carry more
with us than what wou'd Answer our Travelling Expences, so we joyn'd in
a Resolution to divert our selves one Week or ten Days in that Populous
Place. I had a Recommendation from _Paris_ to an _Irish_ Clergyman, who
was a Prependary here, and a Person of Repute. This Gentleman wou'd
oblige me to take a Bed with him during my stay there, which I was very
unwilling to accept of upon Account of my Company, however, he said that
would be no Inconvenience, since I might take my freedom with them all
the Day, in case I wou'd favour him with my Company half an Hour before
Bed time in the Evening. I perceiv'd this Goatly Clergyman was of a
different Stamp to the Generality of his Countrymen, and had a true Idea
of the _French_ Politicks, for discoursing one Night upon the Subject of
a Restoration, and finding I was a Person he might deliver his Mind
freely to. Certainly, _said_ he, never Prince was more the Game of
Politicians and Fools than King _James_ II. His own Friends at home
threw him out of his Throne by their forward and indiscreet Management,
and now he is bubbled with daily Hopes of Recovering it, when in reality
there was never any Design to bring it about. But King _James_ will
always be King _James_, and Judge every Man Honest, who does but
pretend to be so; for pray, gave me leave Sir, will it pass for a
seizable Story in future Ages. That _Lewis_ XIV should make War in order
to Restore _James_ II and keep above 40000 Men in constant Pay, and
never employ any of them that way. Twenty thousand Horse would have laid
the Three Kingdoms desolate in a few Weeks, but was there so much as one
single Dragoon employ'd that way? Was not King _James_ forced to melt
his Canon and debase the Coin with it, whilst _Lewis_ XIV could send
vast Remittances to _Constantinople_ to Support the _Turk_? Were not
300000 Men driven like Sheep from the Banks of the _Boyne_ for want of
Arms, while what wou'd have furnish'd a Million of Men, were Rusting in
the Magazines of _France_? Were not the Highlanders constantly
neglected, and fed with nothing but Promises, till they were reduc'd
from a Victorious Army to a Troop of Banditti? Have not the Lives and
Fortunes of Thousands in _England_ payed very dear for these _French_
Politics, by being encourag'd to rise up and Precipitate themselves into
Ruin, by the Motions of Fleets and Armies upon sham Pretences of making
Descents. I own Sir, I am transported when I find an Opportunity to vent
my self upon this Subject. Had _Lewis_ XIV been streightned by the
Allies, he might have some pretence of not affording so much Assistance
as otherwise he might; but in the last War, he was always Victorious
both upon the _Rhine_ and in _Flanders_, and if after the Battle of
_Steenheer, Fleurs, Landen_, and Victories at Sea, besides the vast
number of Towns he reduced, he did not think fit to employ his Arms
towards restoring King _James_, I must take the Liberty to think the War
was not begun upon his Account, nor that it can be judg'd the Interest
of _France_ (unless they act against their own interest, which they are
too wise a Nation to do) to have him reestablish'd. But all this, Sir, I
speak under the Rose; the Honour of the _French_ Court is too much
touch'd by such Reflections as these to suffer them to go unpunish'd if
I should be discover'd. But I conclude from my worthy Friend at _Paris_
who gave me your Character, that I might use any freedom in your
Company. It may perhaps look like Ingratitude in me to reflect upon a
Person by whose Benevolence I possess this Post I have in the Church,
which does not only afford me a decent Maintenance, but the Opportunity
of obliging a Friend, but as I was a greater sufferer in _Ireland_, by
giving too much into _French_ Projects, so I look upon both this or any
other Kindness they can do me, as a piece of Restitution. The Frank and
open Satyr of this Clergyman against the _French_ Conduct was very
agreeable to my Temper, and I was not backward in seconding him in the
same Key. But while we were entertaining our selves with these dismal
Reflections, a Servant knock'd at the Chamber Door, so the Gentleman
step'd to know his Business, and after about half a Quarter of an Hour
return'd again. I have been, says he, this Fortnight engaged in a very
troublesome Affair, which is like to have an ill Consequence to the
Party concern'd. Here is, says he in Town an _Englishman_, who has, as
he informs me, been studying at a College of that Nation of _Rome_, but
for want of Health is oblig'd to break off his Studies, to have the
Benefit of his own Country Air, which the Physicians prescribe to him as
the only Remedy to patch up his decaying Constitution: But the poor
Gentleman, about Three Leagues out of Town, as he was steering his
Course towards _Paris_, and so Homeward, met with a very unfortunate
Accident. Walking on the Road about half an Hour before Sun setting, he
was overtaken by a Gentleman who kept pace with him, and ask'd him among
other Things how far he design'd to Travel that Night, the _Englishman_
told him he was a Stranger to the Stages upon the Road, but he believ'd
he should take the Opportunity of the next Inn, for that it began to
grow late. The _French_ Man appear'd very obliging in his Conversation,
and told him he should have been glad of his Company, but that he was
oblig'd to turn off on the Right Hand to a Friends House, whither he was
going to divert himself a Day or Two. They had not gone a Hundred Rood
farther, but he stop'd and desired the _Englishman_ if he wou'd take a
pinch of Snuff, and then look'd backward and forward with an ominous
Countenance, he Collar'd the _Englishman_, and drawing a small Pistol
out of his Pocket, without any farther Ceremony, he cry'd _Ou la vie, ou
la Bourse_. The Business was quickly over, and the _Englishman_ robb'd
of all his Stock, which was to the value of Nine Pounds _English_,
besides a little Box of _Roman_ Coin, which were small Pieces of Money
he kept for Counters. The Foot-pad, after he had got his Booty, alters
his Course, and turns back towards _Lyons_, charging the _Englishman_
not to pursue him, nor yet go forward till he saw him out of Sight; for
if he did, he wou'd certainly return upon him and deprive him of his
Life as well as his Money. There was no arguing the Case, and the
Surprize was so great, that had there been any way of escaping this
Accident, 'tis probable it wou'd not have occurr'd at that time.
