The Time drawing near that I prescribed to my self to remain in
_England_, we were now advis'd to return by the short Sea, which we
perform'd without any Let or remarkable Accident. I have observ'd
towards the beginning of these Memoirs, that the War begun in 1688, was
undertaken in Defence of Cardinal _Fastenberg_ to the Electorate of
_Cologn_; the next War was for the Mornarchy of _Spain_, but the
Restoration of King _James_ was always a material Article, and a very
useful Circumstance of the War. I need not acquaint the Reader how
_France_ was reduced in this last bloody War, her best Troops ruin'd,
incapable to win a Battle, every Campaign carry'd two or three of their
best Towns, the Nation dispirited, and Credit sunk, and nothing but a
dismal Scene of Poverty and Misery: And yet in the midst of all this
Misery, (as the _Spanish_ Beggars are said to strut about in their Cloak
and Bilboes at their Side) so this Gasping Monarch had the Assurance not
only to talk of making a Descent, but actually equipp'd a small nimble
Fleet with a Body of Men, and persuaded the Pretender to go upon the
foolish Errand, as if he you'd have any prospect of Conquering the Three
Kingdoms, who was in danger every Moment of having his Capital Sack'd
and himself turn'd out of his Throne. Cou'd there be a more Romantick
Undertaking, or more unintelligible in all its Circumstances, than the
Pretender's Descent upon _Scotland_? The deluded Youth was carry'd to
the Coast of _Scotland_, but upon what Design, is a Secret to this Day.
He was made to believe at his departure from _Dunkirk_, that _Scotland_
was dissatisfy'd to a Man upon account of the Union, and that it wou'd
be an easie matter to Conquer _England_ by putting himself at the Head
of a _Scotch_ Army; but when he desired to be landed to put the Project
in Execution, the _French_ General told him, he had Orders from his
great Master, that there should be no Landing. Now whether this was part
of the old Game, and only in Order to make a Diversion, or to surprize
_Edinburgh_ Castle, where most of the Specie of _Scotland_ was said to
be lodg'd at that time, is various alledg'd by Men of Speculation. That
there was no appearance of succeeding in the main, is pretty plain from
many Circumstances. _England_ with their Allies at that Time were in a
Capacity to spare 50000 Men, against which a few poor scrambling
_Highland_ Foot, wou'd but have made a very bad Resistance. I am not
willing to think _France_ would send Princes a Pilfering, or that the
Pretender was design'd to steal the Money out of _Edinburgh_ Castle, a
Stratagem much more decently committed to some Partisan, or three or
four _Dunkirk_ Privateers. So I think it more suitable to the Prudence,
and for the Honour of the _French_ Court, to mention this design'd
Descent only as a Diversion to amuse and employ the _British_ Troops at
Home, that they might not annoy the Enemy in _Flanders_. But how this
Affair will be reconcil'd to that Affection and Friendship _Lewis_ XIV.
seem'd to have at that time for the Pretender, I am at a loss, with the
rest of Mankind, to account for, since it was exposing him to the
greatest of hazards for a Trifle, and throwing up the Cause at once, had
he fallen into the Hands of his Enemies, and 'tis not the least Miracle
of his Life that he escap'd them. I was invited to have gone abroad with
the Pretender upon this Expedition, being than Free, but the Project
appear'd to me so full of Inconsistencies, I have frequently since
enlarg'd upon my own Politicks and Foresight in that Affair.
