Among the Slain on our Side in this Action, was an Ensign of Sir _John
Fenwick_'s Regiment; and as an Approbation of my Services his Commission
was bestowed upon me.
A few Days after it was resolv'd again to storm that Bastion, as before;
out of three _English_, and one _Scotch_ Regiment, then in the Camp, a
Detachment was selected for a fresh Attack. Those Regiments were under
the Command of Sir _John Fenwick_ (who was afterwards beheaded) Colonel
_Ralph Widdrington_, and Colonel _Ashley_, of the _English_; and Sir
_Alexander Collier_, Father of the present Lord _Portmore_, of the
_Scotch_. Out of every of these four Regiments, as before, were detach'd
a Captain, a Lieutenant, and an Ensign, with fifty Men: Captain _Anthony
Bamwell_, of Sir _John Fenwick's_ Regiment, who was now my Captain,
commanding that Attack.
At break of Day the Attack was begun with great Resolution; and though
vigorously maintain'd, was attended with the desir'd Success. The
Bastion was again taken, and in it the commanding Officer, who in
Service to himself, more than to us, told us, that the Center of the
Bastion would soon be blown up being to his Knowledge undermin'd for
that purpose. But this Secret prov'd of no other use, than to make us,
by way of Precaution, to keep as much as we could upon the Rampart. In
this Attack Captain _Barnwell_ lost his Life; and it happened my new
Commission was wetted (not, as too frequently is the Custom, with a
Debauch) but with a Bullet through my Hand, and the Breach of my Collar
Bone with the Stroke of a Halberd.
After about half an hour's Possession of the Bastion, the Mine under it,
of which the _French_ Officer gave us warning, was sprung; the Enemy at
the same Time making a furious Sally upon us. The Mine did a little,
though the less, Execution, for being discovered; but the Sally no way
answer'd their End, for we beat them back, and immediately fix'd our
Lodgment; which we maintain'd during the Time of the Siege. But to our
double Surprize, a few Days after they fir'd another Mine under, or
aside, the former, in which they had plac'd a quantity of Grenadoes,
which did much more Execution than the other: Notwithstanding all which,
a Battery of Guns was presently erected upon that Bastion, which very
considerably annoy'd the Enemy.
The Breach for a general Storm was now render'd almost practicable; yet
before that could be advisably attempted, there was a strong Horn-work
to be taken. Upon this Exploit the _Dutch_ Troops only were to signalize
themselves; and they answered the Confidence repos'd in them; for though
they were twice repuls'd, at the third Onset they were more successful,
and took Possession; which they likewise kept to the Raising of the
Siege.
There was a Stratagem lay'd at this Time, which in its own Merit one
would have thought should not have fail'd of a good Effect; but to shew
the Vanity of the highest human Wisdom it miscarry'd. On the other side
of the _Maes_, opposite to _Maestrich_, lies the strong Fortress of
_Wyck_, to which it is join'd by a stone Bridge of six fair Arches. The
design was, by a false Attack on that regular Fortification to draw the
Strength of the Garrison to its Defence, which was but very natural to
imagine would be the Consequence. Ready to attend that well concerted
false Attack, a large flat bottom'd Boat, properly furnish'd with
Barrels of Gun-Powder, and other Necessaries, was to fall down under one
of the middle Arches, and when fix'd there, by firing the Powder to have
blown up the Bridge, and by that means to have prevented the Return of
the Garrison to oppose a real Attack at that instant of Time to be made
upon the Town of _Maestrich_ by the whole Army.
