There were left that Day on the Field of Battle, by a general
Computation, not less than eighteen Thousand Men on both Sides, over and
above those, who died of their Wounds: The Loss being pretty equal, only
the _French_ carried off most Prisoners. Prince _Waldeck_ was shot
through the Arm, which I was near enough to be an Eye-witness of; And my
much lamented Friend, Sir _Walter Vane_, was carried off dead. A Wound
in the Arm was all the Mark of Honour, that I as yet could boast of,
though our Cannon in the Defiles had slain many near me.
The Prince _of Conde_ (as we were next Day inform'd) lay all that Night
under a Hedge, wrapp'd in his Cloke: And either from the Mortification
of being disappointed in his Hopes of Victory; or from a Reflection of
the Disservice, which is own natural over Heat of Temper had drawn upon
him, was almost inconsolable many Days after. And thus ended the famous
Battle of _Seneff_.
But though common Vogue has given it the Name of a Battle, in my weak
Opinion, it might rather deserve that of a confus'd Skirmish; all Things
having been forcibly carried on without Regularity, or even Design
enough to allow it any higher Denomination: For, as I have said before,
notwithstanding I was advantagiously stationed for Observation, I found
it very often impossible to distinguish one Party from another. And this
was more remarkably evident on the Part of the Prince of _Orange_, whose
Valour and Vigour having led him into the Middle of the Enemy, and being
then sensible of his Error, by a peculiar Presence of Mind, gave the
Word of Command in _French_, which he spoke perfectly well. But the
_French_ Soldiers, who took him for one of their own Generals, making
Answer, that their Powder was all spent, it afforded Matter of
Instruction to him to persist in his Attack; at the same Time, that it
gave him a Lesson of Caution, to withdraw himself, as soon as he could,
to his own Troops.
However, the Day after the Prince of _Orange_ thought proper to march to
_Quarignan_, a Village within a League of _Mons_; where he remain'd some
Days, till he could be supply'd from _Brussells_ with those Necessaries
which his Army stood in need of.
From thence we march'd to _Valenciennes_, where we again encamp'd, till
we could receive Things proper for a Siege. Upon the Arrival whereof,
the Prince gave Orders to decamp, and march'd his Army with a Design to
besiege _Aeth_. But having Intelligence on our March, that the Mareschal
_De Humiers_ had reinforc'd that Garrison, we march'd directly to
_Oudenard_, and immediately invested it.
This Siege was carried on with such Application and Success, that the
Besiegers were in a few Days ready for a Storm; but the Prince of
_Conde_ prevented them, by coming up to its Relief. Upon which the
Prince of _Orange_, pursuant to the Resolution of a Council of War the
Night before, drew off his Forces in order to give him Battle; and to
that purpose, after the laborious Work of filling up our Lines of
Contravallation, that the Horse might pass more freely, we lay upon our
Arms all Night. Next Morning we expected the Imperial General, Count
_Souches_, to join us; but instead of that, he sent back some very
frivolous Excuses, of the Inconveniency of the Ground for a Battle; and
after that, instead of joining the Prince, marched off quite another
way; the Prince of _Orange_, with the _Dutch_ and _Spanish_ Troops,
marched directly for _Ghent_; exclaiming publickly against the Chicanery
of _Souches_, and openly declaring, That he had been advertis'd of a
Conference between a _French_ Capuchin and that General, the Night
before. Certain it is, that that General lay under the Displeasure of
his Master, the Emperor, for that Piece of Management; and the Count _de
Sporck_ was immediately appointed General in his Place.
