Soon after the Discovery had been made, by Persons actually engag'd in
that inhuman Design, the Regiment, in which I served, with some others
then in _Flanders_, receiv'd Orders, with all Expedition, to embarque
for _England_; though, on our Arrival at _Gravesend_, fresh Orders met
us to remain on board the Transports, till we had surther Directions.
On my going to _London_, a few Days after, I was told, that two
Regiments only were now design'd to come a-shore; and that the rest
would be remanded to _Flanders_, the Danger apprehended being pretty
well over. I was at _White Hall_ when I receiv'd this Notice; where
meeting my Lord _Cutts_ (who had ever since the storming of the _Terra
Nova_ at _Namur_ allow'd me a Share in his Favour) he express'd himself
in the most obliging Manner; and at parting desir'd he might not fail of
seeing me next Morning at his House; for he had somewhat of an
extraordinary Nature to communicate to me.
At the time appointed, I waited on his Lorship, where I met Mr. _Steel_
(now Sir _Richard_, and at that time his Secretary) who immediately
introduc'd me. I found in company with him three Gentlemen; and after
common Salutations, his Lordship deliver'd into my Hands, an Order from
the King in Council to go along with Captain _Porter_, Mr. _de la Rue_,
and Mr. _George Harris_ (who prov'd to be those three with him) to
search all the Transports at _Gravesend_, in order to prevent any of
the Conspirators getting out of _England_ that Way. After answering,
that I was ready to pay Obedience, and receiving, in private, the
further necessary Instructions, we took our Leave, and Oars soon after
for _Gravesend_. 'Twas in our Passage down, that I understood that they
had all been of the Conspiracy, but now reluctant, were become
Witnesses.
When we came to _Gravesend_, I produc'd my Authority to the Commanding
Officer, who very readily paid Obedience, and gave Assistance; But after
our most diligent Search, finding nothing of what we look'd for, we
return'd that very Night to _London_.
Next Day a Proclamation was to come out for the apprehending three of
four Troopers, who were sent over by King _James_, with a thousand
Pounds Reward for each: Mr. _George Harris_, who was the fourth, being
the only Evidence against the other three. No sooner were we return'd
from _Gravesend_, but _Harris_ had Intelligence brought him, that
_Cassells_, one of the three, was at Mr. _Allens_ in the _Savoy_, under
the Name of _Green_. Upon which we went directly to the Place; and
enquiring for Mr. _Green_, we were told he lodg'd there, and was in his
Room.
I was oblig'd by my Order to go along with them, and assist 'em; and
very well was it that I was so: For in consideration of the Reward in
the Proclamation, which, as I have said, was to come out the next Day,
_Harris_ and the rest were for deferring his Seizure, till the coming
out of that Proclamation; but making answer, that in case of his Escape
that Night, I must be responsible to my Superiors; who, under the most
favourable Aspect, would construe it a Neglect of Duty, they were forc'd
to comply; and so he was taken up, and his Name that Night struck out of
the Proclamation. It is very true, by this faithful Discharge of my
Trust, I did save the Government one Thousand Pounds; but it is equally
so, that I never had of my Governors one Farthing Consideration for what
others term'd an over-officious Piece of Service; though in Justice it
must be own'd a Piece of exact and disinterested Duty.
