Very great Prejudice has been done to private Houses; many of them blown
down, and others extreamly shattered and torn. It is thought that five
thousand Pounds will not make good the Repairs at _Audley-End House_,
which belongs to the Earl of _Suffolk_. A good Part also of the
Crown-Office in the _Temple_ is blown down. The Instances of this kind
are so many and so obvious, that it would needlesly take up too much
time to give the Reader an Account of the Collection of them; only there
has been such a wonderful Destruction of Barns, that (looking so much
like a Judgment from the Lord, who the last Year took away our Corn, and
this our Barns) we cannot but give a short Account of some Part of that
Intelligence which hath come to our Hands of that Nature.
A Gentleman, of good Account, in _Ipswich_, affirms, that in a few Miles
riding that Day, there was eleven Barns and Out-houses blown down in the
Road within his View; and within a very few Miles of _Ipswich_ round
about, above thirty Barns, and many of them with Corn in them, were
blown down. At _Southold_ not far from the Place before mentioned, many
new Houses and Barns (built since a late Fire that happened there) are
blown down; as also a Salt-house is destroyed there: and a thousand
Pounds, as it is believed, will not make up that particular Loss.
From _Tewksbury_ it is certified, that an incredible Number of Barns
have been blown down in the small Towns and Villages thereabouts. At
_Twyning_, at least eleven Barns are blown down. In _Ashchurch_ Parish
seven or eight. At _Lee_, five. At _Norton_, a very great Number, three
whereof belonging to one Man. The great Abby-Barn also at _Tewksbury_ is
blown down.
It is credibly reported, that within a very few Miles Circumference in
_Worcestershire_, about an hundred and forty Barns are blown down. At
_Finchinfield_ in _Essex_, which is but an ordinary Village, about
sixteen Barns were blown down. Also at a Town called _Wilchamsted_ in
the County of _Bedford_ (a very small Village) fifteen Barns at least
are blown down. But especially the Parsonage Barns went to wrack in many
Places throughout the Land: In a few Miles Compass in _Bedfordshire_,
and so in _Northamptonshire_, and other Places, eight, ten, and twelve
are blown down; and at _Yielding Parsonage_ in the County of _Bedford_
(out of which was thrust by Oppression and Violence the late Incumbent)
all the Barns belonging to it are down. The Instances also of this kind
are innumerable, which we shall therefore forbear to make further
mention of.
We have also a large Account of the blowing down of a very great and
considerable Number of Fruit-Trees, and other Trees in several Parts; we
shall only pick out two or three Passages which are the most remarkable.
In the Counties of _Gloucester_, _Hereford_, and _Worcester_, several
Persons have lost whole Orchards of Fruit-Trees; and many particular
Mens Loss hath amounted to the Value of forty or fifty Pounds at the
least, meerly by Destruction of their Fruit-Trees: and so in other Parts
of _England_ proportionably the like Damage hath been sustained in this
Respect. And as for other Trees, there has been a great Destruction made
of them in many Places, by this Storm. Several were blown down at
_Hampton-Court_. And three thousand brave Oaks at least, but in one
principal Part of the Forest of _Dean_, belonging to his Majesty. In a
little Grove at _Ipswich_, belonging to the Lord of _Hereford_ (which
together with the Spire of the Steeple before-mentioned, were the most
considerable Ornaments of that Town) are blown down at least two hundred
goodly Trees, one of which was an Ash, which had ten Load of Wood upon
it: there are now few Trees left there.
