We immediately quitted the Philosophical Discourse of Winds, and I
began to be mighty Inquisitive after these Glasses and Translations,
and
1st, I understood here was a strange sort of Glass that did not so
much bring to the Eye, as by I know not what wonderful Operation
carried out the Eye to the Object, and quite varies from all our
Doctrine of Opticks, by forming several strange Phanomena in Sight,
which we are utterly unacquainted with; nor could Vision,
Rarification, or any of our School-mens fine Terms, stand me in any
stead in this case; but here was such Additions of piercing Organs,
Particles of Transparence, Emission, Transmission, Mediums,
Contraction of Rays, and a Thousand Applications of things prepar'd
for the wondrous Operation, that you may be sure are requisite for
the bringing to pass something yet unheard of on this side the Moon.
First we were inform'd, by the help of these Glasses, strange things,
which pass in our World for Non-Entities, is to be seen, and very
perceptible; for Example:
State Polity, in all its Meanders, Shifts, Turns, Tricks, and
Contraries, are so exactly Delineated and Describ'd, That they are in
hopes in time to draw a pair of Globes out, to bring all those things
to a certainty.
Not but that it made some Puzzle, even among these Clear-sighted
Nations, to determine what Figure the Plans and Drafts of this
undiscover'd World of Mysteries ought to be describ'd in: Some were
of Opinion, it ought, to be an Irregular Centagon, a Figure with an
Hundred Cones or Angles: Since the Unaccountables of this
State-Science, are hid in a Million of undiscover'd Corners; as the
Craft, Subtilty and Hypocrisy of Knaves and Courtiers have concealed
them, never to be found out, but by this wonderful D---l-scope, which
seem'd to threaten a perfect Discovery of all those Nudities, which
have lain hid in the Embrio, and false Conceptions of Abortive
Policy, ever since the Foundation of the World.
Some were of Opinion, this Plan ought to be Circular, and in a
Globular Form, since it was on all sides alike, full of dark Spots,
untrod Mazes, waking Mischiefs, and sleeping Mysteries; and being
delineated like the Globes display'd, would discover all the Lines of
Wickedness to the Eye at one view: Besides, they fancied some sort of
Analogy in the Rotundity of the Figure, with the continued Circular
Motion of all Court-Policies, in the stated Round of Universal
Knavery.
Others would have had it Hyrogliphical as by a Hand in Hand, the Form
representing the Affinity between State Policy here, and State Policy
in the Infernal Regions, with some unkind Similies between the
Oeconomy of Satan's Kingdom, and those of most of the Temporal Powers
on Earth; but this was thought too unkind. At last it was determin'd,
That neither of these Schemes were capable of the vast Description;
and that, therefore, the Drafts must be made single, tho' not
dividing the Governments, yet dividing the Arts of Governing into
proper distinct Schemes, viz.
