We cross'd the Line here about the latter End of _September_, and found the
Air exceeding hot and unwholsome, the Sun being in the _Zenith_, and the
Weather very wet and rainy; so we resolv'd to stand away South, without
looking for any more Purchase on that Side.
Accordingly we kept on to the South, having tolerable good Weather, and
keeping the Shore all the Way in View till we came the Length of St.
_Julien_, in the Latitude of 48 Degrees, 22 Minutes South; here we put in
again, being the Beginning of _November_, and took in fresh Water, and
spent about ten Days, refreshing ourselves, and fitting our Tackle; all
which Time we liv'd upon Penguins and Seals, of which we kill'd an
innumerable Number; and when we prepar'd to go, we salted up as many
Penguins as we found would serve our whole Crew, to eat them twice a Week
as long as they would keep.
Here we consulted together about going thro' the Straits of _Magellan_; but
I put them quite out of Conceit of making that troublesom and fatieguing
Adventure, the Straits being so hazardous, and so many Winds requir'd to
pass them; and having assur'd them, that in our Return with _Bat Sharp_, we
went away to the Latitude of 55 Degrees 30 Minutes, and then steering due
East, came open with the North Seas in five Days Run, they all agreed to go
that Way.
On the 20th of November we weigh'd from Port _Julien_, and having a fair
Wind at N. E. by E. led it away merrily, till we came into the Latitude of
54, when the Wind veering more Northerly, and then to the N. W. blowing
hard, we were driven into 55 Degrees and half, but lying as near as we
could to the Wind, we made some Westward Way withal: The 3d of _December_
the Wind came up South, and S. E. by S. being now just as it were at the
Beginning of the Summer Solstice in that Country.
With this Wind, which blew a fresh Gale, we stood away N. N. W. and soon
found ourselves in open Sea, to the West of _America_; upon which we haul'd
away N. by E. and N. N. E. and then N. E. when on the 20th of _December_ we
made the Land, being the Coast of _Chili_, in the Latitude of 41 Degrees,
about the Height of _Baldivia_; and we stood out from hence till we made
the Isle of St. _Juan Fernando_, where we came to an Anchor, and went on
Shore to get fresh Water; also some of our Men went a hunting for Goats, of
which we kill'd enough to feed us all with fresh Meat for all the while we
stay'd here, which was 22 Days. [_Jan._ 11.]
During this Stay we sent the Sloop out to Cruise, but she came back without
seeing any Vessel; after which we order'd her out again more to the North,
but she was scarce gone a League, when she made a Signal that she saw a
Sail, and that we should come out to help them; accordingly the Frigat put
to Sea after them, but making no Signal for us to follow, we lay still, and
work'd hard at cleaning our Ship, shifting some of the Rigging, and the
like.
