The Author of this Relation was in a well-built brick House in the
skirts of the City; and a Stack of Chimneys falling in upon the next
Houses, gave the House such a Shock, that they thought it was just
coming down upon their Heads: but opening the Door to attempt an Escape
into a Garden, the Danger was so apparent, that they all thought fit to
surrender to the Disposal of Almighty Providence, and expect their
Graves in the Ruins of the House, rather than to meet most certain
Destruction in the open Garden: for unless they cou'd have gone above
two hundred Yards from any Building, there had been no Security, for the
Force of the Wind blew the Tiles point-blank, tho' their weight inclines
them downward: and in several very broad Streets, we saw the Windows
broken by the flying of Tile-sherds from the other side: and where there
was room for them to fly, the Author of this has seen Tiles blown from a
House above thirty or forty Yards, and stuck from five to eight Inches
into the solid Earth. Pieces of Timber, Iron, and Sheets of Lead, have
from higher Buildings been blown much farther; as in the Particulars
hereafter will appear.
It is the receiv'd Opinion of abundance of People, that they felt,
during the impetuous fury of the Wind, several Movements of the Earth;
and we have several Letters which affirm it: But as an Earthquake must
have been so general, that every body must have discern'd it; and as the
People were in their Houses when they imagin'd they felt it, the Shaking
and Terror of which might deceive their Imagination, and impose upon
their Judgment; I shall not venture to affirm it was so: And being
resolv'd to use so much Caution in this Relation as to transmit nothing
to Posterity without authentick Vouchers, and such Testimony as no
reasonable Man will dispute; so if any Relation come in our way, which
may afford us a Probability, tho' it may be related for the sake of its
Strangeness or Novelty, it shall nevertheless come in the Company of all
its Uncertainties, and the Reader left to judge of its Truth: for this
Account had not been undertaken, but with design to undeceive the World
in false Relations, and to give an Account back'd with such Authorities,
as that the Credit of it shou'd admit of no Disputes.
For this reason I cannot venture to affirm that there was any such thing
as an Earthquake; but the Concern and Consternation of all People was so
great, that I cannot wonder at their imagining several things which were
not, any more than their enlarging on things that were, since nothing is
more frequent, than for Fear to double every Object, and impose upon the
Understanding, strong Apprehensions being apt very often to perswade us
of the Reality of such things which we have no other reasons to shew for
the probability of, than what are grounded in those Fears which prevail
at that juncture.
