A little while after this, they sent another Sloop, which they had taken
also; and she brought a vast Treasure in Silver and very rich Goods, which
they had got in plundering a Town on the Continent; and they order'd the
Sloop to wait for them at the Island where we lay, till their Return: But
they were so eager in the Pursuit of their Game, that they could not think
of coming back yet, neither could we blame them, they having such great
Things in View: So we resolv'd, in Pursuit of our former Resolution, to be
gone; and after several Consultations among our selves in what Part of the
World we should pitch our Tent, we broke up at first without any
Conclusion.
We were all of the Opinion, that our Treasure was so great, that wherever
we went, we should be a Prey to the Government of that Place; that it was
impossible to go all on Shore, and be conceal'd; and that we should be so
jealous of one another, that we should certainly betray one another,
everyone for fear of his Fellow, that is to say, for fear the other should
tell first. Some therefore propos'd our going about the South Point of Cape
_Horne_, and that then, going away to the Gulph of _Mexico_, we should go
on Shore at the Bay of _Campeachy_, and from thence disperse ourselves as
well as we could, and every one go his own Way.
I was willing enough to have gone thither, because of the Treasure I had
left there under Ground; but still I concluded we were (as I have said) too
rich to go on Shore any where to separate, for every Man of us had too much
Wealth to carry about us; and if we separated, the first Number of Men any
of us should meet with, that were strong enough to do it, would take it
from us, and so we should but just expose ourselves to be murder'd for that
Money we had gotten at so much Hazard.
Some propos'd then our going to the Coast of _Virgina_, and go some on
Shore in one Place, and some in another privately, and so travelling to the
Sea-Ports where there were most People, we might be conceal'd, and by
Degrees reduce our selves to a private Capacity, every one shifting Home as
well as they could. This I acknowledge might be done, if we were sure none
of us would be false one to another; but while Tales might be told, and the
Teller of the Tale was sure to save his own Life and Treasure, and make his
Peace at the Expence of his Comrade's, there was no Safety; and they might
be sure, that as the Money would render them suspected wherever they came,
so they would be examin'd, and what by faltering in their Story, and by
being cross-examin'd, kept apart, and the one being made to believe the
other had betray'd him, and told all, when indeed he might have said
nothing to hurt him, the Truth of Fact would be dragg'd out by Piece-meal,
till they would certainly at last come to the Gallows.
