However, upon second thoughts we resolved that we would only stay in
that part so long as the ship rid in the bay, and then making them
believe we were gone with the ship, we would go and place ourselves, if
possible, where there were no inhabitants to be seen, and so live as we
could, or perhaps watch for a ship that might be driven upon the coast
as we were.
The ship continued a fortnight in the roads, repairing some damage which
had been done her in the late storm, and taking in wood and water; and
during this time, the boat coming often on shore, the men brought us
several refreshments, and the natives believing we only belonged to the
ship, were civil enough. We lived in a kind of a tent on the shore, or
rather a hut, which we made with the boughs of trees, and sometimes in
the night retired to a wood a little out of their way, to let them
think we were gone on board the ship. However, we found them barbarous,
treacherous, and villainous enough in their nature, only civil from
fear, and therefore concluded we should soon fall into their hands when
the ship was gone.
The sense of this wrought upon my fellow-sufferers even to distraction;
and one of them, being a carpenter, in his mad fit, swam off to the ship
in the night, though she lay then a league to sea, and made such pitiful
moan to be taken in, that the captain was prevailed with at last to take
him in, though they let him lie swimming three hours in the water before
he consented to it.
Upon this, and his humble submission, the captain received him, and, in
a word, the importunity of this man (who for some time petitioned to be
taken in, though they hanged him as soon as they had him) was such as
could not be resisted; for, after he had swam so long about the ship,
he was not able to reach the shore again; and the captain saw evidently
that the man must be taken on board or suffered to drown, and the whole
ship's company offering to be bound for him for his good behaviour, the
captain at last yielded, and he was taken up, but almost dead with his
being so long in the water.
When this man was got in, he never left importuning the captain, and all
the rest of the officers, in behalf of us that were behind, but to
the very last day the captain was inexorable; when, at the time their
preparations were making to sail, and orders given to hoist the boats
into the ship, all the seamen in a body came up to the rail of the
quarter-deck, where the captain was walking with some of his officers,
and appointing the boatswain to speak for them, he went up, and falling
on his knees to the captain, begged of him, in the humblest manner
possible, to receive the four men on board again, offering to answer for
their fidelity, or to have them kept in chains till they came to Lisbon,
and there to be delivered up to justice, rather than, as they said, to
have them left to be murdered by savages, or devoured by wild beasts. It
was a great while ere the captain took any notice of them, but when he
did, he ordered the boatswain to be seized, and threatened to bring him
to the capstan for speaking for them.
