1. A particular Plan of Publick Faith; and here we had the Experiment
immediately made: The Representation is quallified for the Meridian
of any Country, as well in our World as theirs; and turning it
to'ards our own World, there I saw plainly an Exchequer shut up, and
20000 Mourning Families selling their Coaches, Horses, Whores,
Equipages, &c. for Bread, the Government standing by laughing, and
looking on: Hard by I saw the Chamber of a great City shut up, and
Forty Thousand Orphans turn'd adrift in the World; some had no
Cloaths, some no Shoes, some no Money; and still the City Magistrates
calling upon other Orphans, to pay their money in. These things put
me in mind of the Prophet Ezekiel, and methoughts I heard the same
Voice that spoke to him, calling me, and telling me, Come hither, and
I'll show thee greater Abominations than these: So looking still on
that vast Map, by the help of these Magnifying Glasses, I saw huge
Fleets hir'd for Transport-Service, but never paid; vast Taxes
Anticipated, that were never Collected; others Collected and
Appropriated, but Misapplied: Millions of Talleys struck to be
Discounted, and the Poor paying 40 per Cent, to receive their Money.
I saw huge Quantities of Money drawn in, and little or none issued
out; vast Prizes taken from the Enemy, and then taken away again at
home by Friends; Ships sav'd on the Sea, and sunk in the Prize
Offices; Merchants escaping from Enemies at Sea, and be Pirated by
Sham Embargoes, Counterfeit Claims, Confiscations, &c a-shoar: There
we saw Turkey-Fleets taken into Convoys, and Guarded to the very
Mouth of the Enemy, and then abandon'd for their better Security:
Here we saw Mons. Pouchartrain shutting up the Town-house of Paris,
and plundring the Bank of Lyons.
2. Here we law the State of the War among Nations; Here was the
French giving Sham-thanks for Victories they never got, and some body
else adressing and congratulating the sublime Glory of running away:
Here was Te Deum for Sham-Victories by Land; and there was
Thanksgiving for Ditto by Sea: Here we might see two Armies fight,
both run away, and both come and thank GOD for nothing: Here we saw a
Plan of a late War like that in Ireland; there was all the Officers
cursing a Dutch General, because the damn'd Rogue would fight, and
spoil a good War, that with decent Management and good Husbandry,
might have been eek't out this Twenty Years; there was whole Armies
hunting two Cows to one Irishman, and driving of black Cattle
declar'd the Noble End of the the War: Here we saw a Country full of
Stone Walls and strong Towns, where every Campaign, the Trade of War
was carried on by the Soldiers, with the same Intriguing as it was
carried on in the Council Chambers; there was Millions of
Contributions raised, and vast Sums Collected, but no Taxes lessen'd;
whole Plate Fleets surpriz'd, but no Treasure found; vaft Sums lost
by Enemies, and yet never found by Friends, Ships loaded with
Volatile Silver, that came away full, and gat home empty; whole
Voyages made to beat No body, and plunder Every body; two Millions
robb'd from the honest Merchants, and not a Groat sav'd for the
honest Subjects: There we saw Captains Lifting Men with the
Governments Money, and letting them go again for their own; Ships
fitted out at the Rates of Two Millions a Year, to fight but once in
Three Years, and then run away for want of Powder and Shot.
