But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they themselves
could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one another, when the three
were gone thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when the two went
back to find them, the three were come to the old habitation again: we
shall see their different conduct presently.  When the three came back
like furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they had
been about had put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told
them what they had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of them
stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys
at play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a
twirl about, fleering in his face, says to him, "And you, Seignior Jack
Spaniard, shall have the same sauce if you do not mend your manners."  The
Spaniard, who, though a quiet civil man, was as brave a man as could be,
and withal a strong, well-made man, looked at him for a good while, and
then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and, with
one blow of his fist, knocked him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-
axe; at which one of the rogues, as insolent as the first, fired his
pistol at the Spaniard immediately; he missed his body, indeed, for the
bullets went through his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his
ear, and he bled pretty much.  The blood made the Spaniard believe he was
more hurt than he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before
he acted all in a perfect calm; but now resolving to go through with his
work, he stooped, and taking the fellow's musket whom he had knocked
down, was just going to shoot the man who had fired at him, when the rest
of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and calling to him not to
shoot, they stepped in, secured the other two, and took their arms from
them.
When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the Spaniards
their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they began to cool, and
giving the Spaniards better words, would have their arms again; but the
Spaniards, considering the feud that was between them and the other two
Englishmen, and that it would be the best method they could take to keep
them from killing one another, told them they would do them no harm, and
if they would live peaceably, they would be very willing to assist and
associate with them as they did before; but that they could not think of
giving them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do
mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened them
all to make them their servants.
