I found, when they saw that I did not propose to go myself, the Men were
much the easier; for at first they began to think it was only a Project of
mine to run away from them; and so indeed it was: However, as I did not at
first propose to go my self, so when I came to the Proposal of who should
go, I made a long Discourse to them of the Obligation they had all to be
faithful one to another, and that those who went in the Sloop, ought to
consider themselves and those that were with them to be but one Body with
those who were left behind; that their whole Concern ought to be to get
some good Ship to fetch them off: At last, I concluded, with a Proposal,
that who ever went in the Sloop, should leave his Money behind in the
common Keeping, as it was before; to remain as a Pledge for his faithful
performing the Voyage, and coming back again to the Company; and should
faithfully swear that wherever they went, (for as to the Voyage, they were
at full Liberty to go whither they would) they would certainly endeavour to
get back to _Madagascar_; and that if they were cast away, stranded, taken,
or whatever befel them, they should never rest till they got to
_Madagascar_, if it was possible.
They all came most readily into this Proposal, for those who should go into
the Sloop, but with this Alteration in them, (which was easy to be seen in
their Countenances) _viz._ that from that Minute there was no striving who
should go, but every Man was willing to stay where they were: This was what
I wanted, and I let it rest for two or three Days; when I took Occasion to
tell them, that seeing they all were sensible that it was a very good
Proposal to send the Sloop out to Sea, and see what they could do for us, I
thought it was strange they should so generally shew themselves backward to
the Service for fear of parting from their Money; I told them that no Man
need be afraid, that the whole Body should agree to take his Money from him
without any pretended Offence, much less when he should be Abroad for their
Service: But however, as it was my Proposal, and I was always willing to
hazard myself for the Good of them all, so I was ready to go on the
Conditions I had propos'd to them for others, and I was not afraid to
flatter myself with serving them so well Abroad, that they should not
grudge to restore me my Share of Money when I came Home, and the like of
all those that went with me.
This was so seasonably spoken, and humour'd so well, that it answer'd my
Design effectually, and I was voted to go _nemine contradicente_; then I
desir'd they would either draw Lots for who and who should go with me, or
leave it in my absolute Choice to pick and cull my Men: They had for some
Time agreed to the first; and forty Blanks were made for those to whose Lot
it should come to draw a Blank to go in the Sloop; but then it was said,
this might neither be a fair nor an effectual Choice; for Example, if the
needful Number of Officers, and of particular Occupations, should not
happen to be lotted out, the Sloop might be oblig'd to go out to Sea
without a Surgeon, or without a Carpenter, or without a Cook, and the like:
So, upon second Thoughts, it was left to me to name my Men; so I chose me
out forty stout Fellows, and among them several who were trusty bold Men,
fit for any thing.
