But that which was better than all this to us was, that the Master gave us
an Account of two Ships which were behind, and were under Sail for _Lima_
or _Panama_; the one having the Revenues of the Kingdom of _Chili_, and the
other having a great Quantity of Silver, going from _Puna_ to _Lima_, to be
forwarded from thence to _Panama_, and that they kept together, being Ships
of Force, to protect one another; how they did it we soon saw the Effects
of.
Upon this Intelligence we were very joyful, and assur'd the Master, that if
we found it so, we would give him his Vessel again, and all his Goods,
except his Money, as for That, we told him, such People as we never
return'd it any Body: However, the Man's Intelligence prov'd good, for the
very next Day, as we were standing South-West, our _Spanish_ Colours being
out, as above, we spy'd one of the Ships, and soon after the other; we
found they had discover'd us also, and that being doubtful what to make of
us, they tack'd and stood Eastward to get nearer the Land; we did the like,
and as we found there was no letting them go that Way but that we should be
sure to lose them, we soon let them know that we were resolv'd to speak
with them.
The biggest Ship, which was three Leagues a-Stern of the other, crowded in
for the Shore with all the Sail, she could make, and it was easy for us to
see that she would escape us; for as she was a great deal farther in with
the Land than the other when we first gave Chace, so in about three Hours
we saw the Land plain a-Head of us, and that the great Ship would get into
Port before we could reach her.
Upon this we stretch'd a-Head with all the Sail we could make, and the
Sloop, which crowded also very hard, and out-went us, engag'd the small
Ship at least an Hour before we could come up: But she could make little of
it, for the _Spanish_ Ship having 12 Guns and 6 Patereroes, would have been
too many for the Sloop if we had not come up: However, at length, our
biggest Ship came up also, and, running up under her Quarter, gave her our
whole Broadside; at which she struck immediately, and the _Spaniards_
cry'd, _Quarter_, and _Miserecordia_; Upon this, our Sloop's Men enter'd
her presently, and secur'd her.
In the Beginning oft his Action, it seems, our _Redhand_ Captain was so
provok'd at losing the greater Prize, which, as he thought, had all the
Money on Board, that he swore he would not spare one of the Dogs, (so he
call'd the _Spaniards_ in the other Ship) but he was prevented; and it was
very happy for the _Spaniards_, that the first Shot the Ship made towards
us, just as we were running up to pour in our Broadside, I say, the first
Shot took Captain _Redhand_ full on the Breast, and shot his Head and one
Shoulder off, so that he never spoke more, nor did I find that any one Man
in the Ship shew'd the least Concern for him; so certain it is, that
Cruelty never recommends any Man among _Englishmen_; no, tho' they have no
Share in the suffering under it; but one said, D--n him, let him go, he was
a butcherly Dog; another said, D--n him, he was a merciless Son of a B--ch;
another said, he was a barbarous Dog, and the like.
