These Objections were equally just, to what Nation or Place soever we could
think of going: So that upon the whole, we concluded there was no Safety
for us but by keeping all together, and going to some Part of the World
where we might be strong enough to defend ourselves, or be so conceal'd
till we might find out some Way of Escape that we might not now be so well
able to think of.
In the Middle of all these Consultations, in which I freely own I was at a
Loss, and could not tell which Way to advise, an old Sailor stood up, and
told us, if we would be advis'd by him, there was a Part of the World where
he had been, where we might all settle ourselves undisturb'd, and live very
comfortably and plentifully, till we could find out some Way how to dispose
of ourselves better; and that we might easily be strong enough for the
Inhabitants, who would at first, perhaps, attack us, but that afterwards
they would sort very well with us, and supply us with all Sorts of
Provisions very plentifully; and this was the Island of _Madagascar_: He
told us we might live very well there. He gave us a large Account of the
Country, the Climate, the People, the Plenty of Provisions which was to be
had there, especially of black Cattle, of which, he said, there was an
infinite Number, and consequently a Plenty of Milk, of which so many other
Things was made: In a Word, he read us so many Lectures upon the Goodness
of the Place, and the Conveniency of living there, that we were, one and
all, eager to go thither, and concluded upon it.
Accordingly, having little left to do, (for we had been in a sailing
Posture some Weeks) we left word with the Officer who commanded the Sloop,
and with all his Men, that they should come after us to _Madagascar_; and
our Men were not wanting to let them know all our Reasons for going
thither, as well as the Difficulties we found of going any where else,
which had so fully possess'd them with the Hopes of farther Advantage, that
they promis'd for the rest that they would all follow us.
However, as we all calculated the Length of the Voyage, and that our Water,
and perhaps our Provisions might not hold out so far, but especially our
Water, we agreed, that having pass'd Cape _Horn_, and got into the North
Seas, we would steer Northward up the East Shore of _America_ till we came
to St. _Julien_, where we would stay at least fourteen Days to take in
Water, and to store ourselves with Seals and Penguins, which would greatly
eek out our Ship's Stores; and that then we should cross the great
_Atlantick_ Ocean in a milder Latitude than if we went directly, and stood
immediately over from the Passage about the Cape, which must be, at least,
in 55 or 56, and perhaps, as the Weather might be, would be in the Latitude
of 60 or 61.
