Do you mean to say Carmintel began, in a bullying tone.
But Charley cut him off shortly.  I mean to say nothing, he said.  You
heard what I said, and if the cap fits, why
He shrugged his shoulders, and Carmintel glowered at him, speechless.
What we want is imagination, Charley said to me one day, when we had
attempted to creep upon Big Alec in the gray of dawn and had been shot at
for our trouble.
And thereafter, and for many days, I cudgelled my brains trying to
imagine some possible way by which two men, on an open stretch of water,
could capture another who knew how to use a rifle and was never to be
found without one.  Regularly, every slack water, without slyness, boldly
and openly in the broad day, Big Alec was to be seen running his line.
And what made it particularly exasperating was the fact that every
fisherman, from Benicia to Vallejo knew that he was successfully defying
us.  Carmintel also bothered us, for he kept us busy among the
shad-fishers of San Pablo, so that we had little time to spare on the
King of the Greeks.  But Charleys wife and children lived at Benicia,
and we had made the place our headquarters, so that we always returned to
it.
Ill tell you what we can do, I said, after several fruitless weeks had
passed; we can wait some slack water till Big Alec has run his line and
gone ashore with the fish, and then we can go out and capture the line.
It will put him to time and expense to make another, and then well
figure to capture that too.  If we cant capture him, we can discourage
him, you see.
Charley saw, and said it wasnt a bad idea.  We watched our chance, and
the next low-water slack, after Big Alec had removed the fish from the
line and returned ashore, we went out in the salmon boat.  We had the
bearings of the line from shore marks, and we knew we would have no
difficulty in locating it.  The first of the flood tide was setting in,
when we ran below where we thought the line was stretched and dropped
over a fishing-boat anchor.  Keeping a short rope to the anchor, so that
it barely touched the bottom, we dragged it slowly along until it stuck
and the boat fetched up hard and fast.
Weve got it, Charley cried.  Come on and lend a hand to get it in.
Together we hove up the rope till the anchor I came in sight with the
sturgeon line caught across one of the flukes.  Scores of the
murderous-looking hooks flashed into sight as we cleared the anchor, and
we had just started to run along the line to the end where we could begin
to lift it, when a sharp thud in the boat startled us.  We looked about,
but saw nothing and returned to our work.  An instant later there was a
similar sharp thud and the gunwale splintered between Charleys body and
mine.
