Ngurn had he failed to bribe with the inevitable curing of his head when
he was dead.  Vngngn, imbecile and chief that he was, was too imbecilic,
too much under the sway of Ngurn, to be considered.  Remained Balatta,
who, from the time she found him and poked his blue eyes open to
recrudescence of her grotesque female hideousness, had continued his
adorer.  Woman she was, and he had long known that the only way to win
from her treason of her tribe was through the womans heart of her.
Bassett was a fastidious man.  He had never recovered from the initial
horror caused by Balattas female awfulness.  Back in England, even at
best the charm of woman, to him, had never been robust.  Yet now,
resolutely, as only a man can do who is capable of martyring himself for
the cause of science, he proceeded to violate all the fineness and
delicacy of his nature by making love to the unthinkably disgusting
bushwoman.
He shuddered, but with averted face hid his grimaces and swallowed his
gorge as he put his arm around her dirt-crusted shoulders and felt the
contact of her rancid oily and kinky hair with his neck and chin.  But he
nearly screamed when she succumbed to that caress so at the very first of
the courtship and mowed and gibbered and squealed little, queer, pig-like
gurgly noises of delight.  It was too much.  And the next he did in the
singular courtship was to take her down to the stream and give her a
vigorous scrubbing.
From then on he devoted himself to her like a true swain as frequently
and for as long at a time as his will could override his repugnance.  But
marriage, which she ardently suggested, with due observance of tribal
custom, he balked at.  Fortunately, taboo rule was strong in the tribe.
Thus, Ngurn could never touch bone, or flesh, or hide of crocodile.  This
had been ordained at his birth.  Vngngn was denied ever the touch of
woman.  Such pollution, did it chance to occur, could be purged only by
the death of the offending female.  It had happened once, since Bassetts
arrival, when a girl of nine, running in play, stumbled and fell against
the sacred chief.  And the girl-child was seen no more.  In whispers,
Balatta told Bassett that she had been three days and nights in dying
before the Red One.  As for Balatta, the breadfruit was taboo to her.
For which Bassett was thankful.  The taboo might have been water.
For himself, he fabricated a special taboo.  Only could he marry, he
explained, when the Southern Cross rode highest in the sky.  Knowing his
astronomy, he thus gained a reprieve of nearly nine months; and he was
confident that within that time he would either be dead or escaped to the
coast with full knowledge of the Red One and of the source of the Red
Ones wonderful voice.  At first he had fancied the Red One to be some
colossal statue, like Memnon, rendered vocal under certain temperature
conditions of sunlight.  But when, after a war raid, a batch of prisoners
was brought in and the sacrifice made at night, in the midst of rain,
when the sun could play no part, the Red One had been more vocal than
usual, Bassett discarded that hypothesis.
