And, after the death of Split-Nose, there was but one other man that
dared rise up and speak his mind, and that man was Hair-Face.  Where is
the strength of the strong? he asked.  We are the strong, all of us,
and we are stronger than Dog-Tooth and Tiger-Face and Three-Legs and
Pig-Jaw and all the rest who do nothing and eat much and weaken us by the
hurt of their strength which is bad strength.  Men who are slaves are not
strong.  If the man who first found the virtue and use of fire had used
his strength we would have been his slaves, as we are the slaves to-day
of Little-Belly, who found the virtue and use of the fish-trap; and of
the men who found the virtue and use of the land, and the goats, and the
fire-brew.  Before, we lived in trees, my brothers, and no man was safe.
But we fight no more with one another.  We have added our strength
together.  Then let us fight no more with the Meat-Eaters.  Let us add
our strength and their strength together.  Then will we be indeed strong.
And then we will go out together, the Fish-Eaters and the Meat-Eaters,
and we will kill the tigers and the lions and the wolves and the wild
dogs, and we will pasture our goats on all the hill-sides and plant our
corn and fat roots in all the high mountain valleys.  In that day we will
be so strong that all the wild animals will flee before us and perish.
And nothing will withstand us, for the strength of each man will be the
strength of all men in the world.
So said Hair-Face, and they killed him, because, they said, he was a
wild man and wanted to go back and live in a tree.  It was very strange.
Whenever a man arose and wanted to go forward all those that stood still
said he went backward and should be killed.  And the poor people helped
stone him, and were fools.  We were all fools, except those who were fat
and did no work.  The fools were called wise, and the wise were stoned.
Men who worked did not get enough to eat, and the men who did not work
ate too much.
And the tribe went on losing strength.  The children were weak and
sickly.  And, because we ate not enough, strange sicknesses came among us
and we died like flies.  And then the Meat-Eaters came upon us.  We had
followed Tiger-Face too often over the divide and killed them.  And now
they came to repay in blood.  We were too weak and sick to man the big
wall.  And they killed us, all of us, except some of the women, which
they took away with them.  The Bug and I escaped, and I hid in the
wildest places, and became a hunter of meat and went hungry no more.  I
stole a wife from the Meat-Eaters, and went to live in the caves of the
high mountains where they could not find me.  And we had three sons, and
each son stole a wife from the Meat-Eaters.  And the rest you know, for
are you not the sons of my sons?
