The real danger lay in the fecundity of her loins, and it was in 1970
that the first cry of alarm was raised.  For some time all territories
adjacent to China had been grumbling at Chinese immigration; but now it
suddenly came home to the world that Chinas population was 500,000,000.
She had increased by a hundred millions since her awakening.  Burchaldter
called attention to the fact that there were more Chinese in existence
than white-skinned people.  He performed a simple sum in arithmetic.  He
added together the populations of the United States, Canada, New Zealand,
Australia, South Africa, England, France, Germany, Italy, Austria,
European Russia, and all Scandinavia.  The result was 495,000,000.  And
the population of China overtopped this tremendous total by 5,000,000.
Burchaldters figures went round the world, and the world shivered.
For many centuries Chinas population had been constant.  Her territory
had been saturated with population; that is to say, her territory, with
the primitive method of production, had supported the maximum limit of
population.  But when she awoke and inaugurated the machine-civilization,
her productive power had been enormously increased.  Thus, on the same
territory, she was able to support a far larger population.  At once the
birth rate began to rise and the death rate to fall.  Before, when
population pressed against the means of subsistence, the excess
population had been swept away by famine.  But now, thanks to the
machine-civilization, Chinas means of subsistence had been enormously
extended, and there were no famines; her population followed on the heels
of the increase in the means of subsistence.
During this time of transition and development of power, China had
entertained no dreams of conquest.  The Chinese was not an imperial race.
It was industrious, thrifty, and peace-loving.  War was looked upon as an
unpleasant but necessary task that at times must be performed.  And so,
while the Western races had squabbled and fought, and world-adventured
against one another, China had calmly gone on working at her machines and
growing.  Now she was spilling over the boundaries of her Empirethat was
all, just spilling over into the adjacent territories with all the
certainty and terrifying slow momentum of a glacier.
Following upon the alarm raised by Burchaldters figures, in 1970 France
made a long-threatened stand.  French Indo-China had been overrun, filled
up, by Chinese immigrants.  France called a halt.  The Chinese wave
flowed on.  France assembled a force of a hundred thousand on the
boundary between her unfortunate colony and China, and China sent down an
army of militia-soldiers a million strong.  Behind came the wives and
sons and daughters and relatives, with their personal household luggage,
in a second army.  The French force was brushed aside like a fly.  The
Chinese militia-soldiers, along with their families, over five millions
all told, coolly took possession of French Indo-China and settled down to
stay for a few thousand years.
Outraged France was in arms.  She hurled fleet after fleet against the
coast of China, and nearly bankrupted herself by the effort.  China had
no navy.  She withdrew like a turtle into her shell.  For a year the
French fleets blockaded the coast and bombarded exposed towns and
villages.  China did not mind.  She did not depend upon the rest of the
world for anything.  She calmly kept out of range of the French guns and
went on working.  France wept and wailed, wrung her impotent hands and
appealed to the dumfounded nations.  Then she landed a punitive
expedition to march to Peking.  It was two hundred and fifty thousand
strong, and it was the flower of France.  It landed without opposition
and marched into the interior.  And that was the last ever seen of it.
The line of communication was snapped on the second day.  Not a survivor
came back to tell what had happened.  It had been swallowed up in Chinas
cavernous maw, that was all.
