At first, Freddie Drummond found it monstrously difficult to get along
among the working people.  He was not used to their ways, and they
certainly were not used to his.  They were suspicious.  He had no
antecedents.  He could talk of no previous jobs.  His hands were soft.
His extraordinary politeness was ominous.  His first idea of the rôle he
would play was that of a free and independent American who chose to work
with his hands and no explanations given.  But it wouldnt do, as he
quickly discovered.  At the beginning they accepted him, very
provisionally, as a freak.  A little later, as he began to know his way
about better, he insensibly drifted into the rôle that would worknamely,
he was a man who had seen better days, very much better days, but who was
down on his luck, though, to be sure, only temporarily.
He learned many things, and generalized much and often erroneously, all
of which can be found in the pages of _The Unskilled Labourer_.  He saved
himself, however, after the sane and conservative manner of his kind, by
labelling his generalizations as tentative.  One of his first
experiences was in the great Wilmax Cannery, where he was put on
piece-work making small packing cases.  A box factory supplied the parts,
and all Freddie Drummond had to do was to fit the parts into a form and
drive in the wire nails with a light hammer.
It was not skilled labour, but it was piece-work.  The ordinary labourers
in the cannery got a dollar and a half per day.  Freddie Drummond found
the other men on the same job with him jogging along and earning a dollar
and seventy-five cents a day.  By the third day he was able to earn the
same.  But he was ambitious.  He did not care to jog along and, being
unusually able and fit, on the fourth day earned two dollars.
The next day, having keyed himself up to an exhausting high-tension, he
earned two dollars and a half.  His fellow workers favoured him with
scowls and black looks, and made remarks, slangily witty and which he did
not understand, about sucking up to the boss and pace-making and holding
her down, when the rains set in.  He was astonished at their malingering
on piece-work, generalized about the inherent laziness of the unskilled
labourer, and proceeded next day to hammer out three dollars worth of
boxes.
And that night, coming out of the cannery, he was interviewed by his
fellow workmen, who were very angry and incoherently slangy.  He failed
to comprehend the motive behind their action.  The action itself was
strenuous.  When he refused to ease down his pace and bleated about
freedom of contract, independent Americanism, and the dignity of toil,
they proceeded to spoil his pace-making ability.  It was a fierce battle,
for Drummond was a large man and an athlete, but the crowd finally jumped
on his ribs, walked on his face, and stamped on his fingers, so that it
was only after lying in bed for a week that he was able to get up and
look for another job.  All of which is duly narrated in that first book
of his, in the chapter entitled The Tyranny of Labour.
