But Bassetts relapses grew more frequent, his brief convalescences less
and less vigorous, his periods of coma longer, until he came to know,
beyond the last promptings of the optimism inherent in so tremendous a
constitution as his own, that he would never live to cross the grass
lands, perforate the perilous coast jungle, and reach the sea.  He faded
as the Southern Cross rose higher in the sky, till even Balatta knew that
he would be dead ere the nuptial date determined by his taboo.  Ngurn
made pilgrimage personally and gathered the smoke materials for the
curing of Bassetts head, and to him made proud announcement and
exhibition of the artistic perfectness of his intention when Bassett
should be dead.  As for himself, Bassett was not shocked.  Too long and
too deeply had life ebbed down in him to bite him with fear of its
impending extinction.  He continued to persist, alternating periods of
unconsciousness with periods of semi-consciousness, dreamy and unreal, in
which he idly wondered whether he had ever truly beheld the Red One or
whether it was a nightmare fancy of delirium.
Came the day when all mists and cob-webs dissolved, when he found his
brain clear as a bell, and took just appraisement of his bodys weakness.
Neither hand nor foot could he lift.  So little control of his body did
he have, that he was scarcely aware of possessing one.  Lightly indeed
his flesh sat upon his soul, and his soul, in its briefness of clarity,
knew by its very clarity that the black of cessation was near.  He knew
the end was close; knew that in all truth he had with his eyes beheld the
Red One, the messenger between the worlds; knew that he would never live
to carry that message to the worldthat message, for aught to the
contrary, which might already have waited mans hearing in the heart of
Guadalcanal for ten thousand years.  And Bassett stirred with resolve,
calling Ngurn to him, out under the shade of the breadfruit tree, and
with the old devil-devil doctor discussing the terms and arrangements of
his last life effort, his final adventure in the quick of the flesh.
I know the law, O Ngurn, he concluded the matter.  Whoso is not of the
folk may not look upon the Red One and live.  I shall not live anyway.
Your young men shall carry me before the face of the Red One, and I shall
look upon him, and hear his voice, and thereupon die, under your hand, O
Ngurn.  Thus will the three things be satisfied: the law, my desire, and
your quicker possession of my head for which all your preparations wait.
To which Ngurn consented, adding:
It is better so.  A sick man who cannot get well is foolish to live on
for so little a while.  Also is it better for the living that he should
go.  You have been much in the way of late.  Not but what it was good for
me to talk to such a wise one.  But for moons of days we have held little
talk.  Instead, you have taken up room in the house of heads, making
noises like a dying pig, or talking much and loudly in your own language
which I do not understand.  This has been a confusion to me, for I like
to think on the great things of the light and dark as I turn the heads in
the smoke.  Your much noise has thus been a disturbance to the
long-learning and hatching of the final wisdom that will be mine before I
die.  As for you, upon whom the dark has already brooded, it is well that
you die now.  And I promise you, in the long days to come when I turn
your head in the smoke, no man of the tribe shall come in to disturb us.
And I will tell you many secrets, for I am an old man and very wise, and
I shall be adding wisdom to wisdom as I turn your head in the smoke.
