He was a very substantial citizen indeed.  His face was like the full
moon in a fog, with two little holes punched out for his eyes, a very
ripe pear stuck on for his nose, and a wide gash to serve for a mouth.
The girth of his waistcoat was hung up and lettered in his tailors shop
as an extraordinary curiosity.  He breathed like a heavy snorer, and his
voice in speaking came thickly forth, as if it were oppressed and stifled
by feather-beds.  He trod the ground like an elephant, and eat and drank
likelike nothing but an alderman, as he was.
This worthy citizen had risen to his great eminence from small
beginnings.  He had once been a very lean, weazen little boy, never
dreaming of carrying such a weight of flesh upon his bones or of money in
his pockets, and glad enough to take his dinner at a bakers door, and
his tea at a pump.  But he had long ago forgotten all this, as it was
proper that a wholesale fruiterer, alderman, common-councilman, member of
the worshipful Company of Patten-makers, past sheriff, and, above all, a
Lord Mayor that was to be, should; and he never forgot it more completely
in all his life than on the eighth of November in the year of his
election to the great golden civic chair, which was the day before his
grand dinner at Guildhall.
It happened that as he sat that evening all alone in his counting-house,
looking over the bill of fare for next day, and checking off the fat
capons in fifties, and the turtle-soup by the hundred quarts, for his
private amusement,it happened that as he sat alone occupied in these
pleasant calculations, a strange man came in and asked him how he did,
adding, If I am half as much changed as you, sir, you have no
recollection of me, I am sure.
The strange man was not over and above well dressed, and was very far
from being fat or rich-looking in any sense of the word, yet he spoke
with a kind of modest confidence, and assumed an easy, gentlemanly sort
of an air, to which nobody but a rich man can lawfully presume.  Besides
this, he interrupted the good citizen just as he had reckoned three
hundred and seventy-two fat capons, and was carrying them over to the
next column; and as if that were not aggravation enough, the learned
recorder for the city of London had only ten minutes previously gone out
at that very same door, and had turned round and said, Good night, my
lord.  Yes, he had said, my lord;he, a man of birth and education, of
the Honourable Society of the Middle Temple, Barrister-at-Law,he who had
an uncle in the House of Commons, and an aunt almost but not quite in the
House of Lords (for she had married a feeble peer, and made him vote as
she liked),he, this man, this learned recorder, had said, my lord.
Ill not wait till to-morrow to give you your title, my Lord Mayor,
says he, with a bow and a smile; you are Lord Mayor _de facto_, if not
_de jure_.  Good night, my lord.
