Of course I shall pay you what I owe you, said the Lord Mayor elect,
fidgeting in his chair.  You lent meI think it was a shilling or some
small coinwhen we parted company, and that of course I shall pay with
good interest.  I can pay my way with any man, and always have done.  If
you look into the Mansion House the day after to-morrow,some time after
dusk,and ask for my private clerk, youll find he has a draft for you.
I havent got time to say anything more just now, unless,he hesitated,
for, coupled with a strong desire to glitter for once in all his glory in
the eyes of his former companion, was a distrust of his appearance, which
might be more shabby than he could tell by that feeble light,unless
youd like to come to the dinner to-morrow.  I dont mind your having
this ticket, if you like to take it.  A great many people would give
their ears for it, I can tell you.
His old friend took the card without speaking a word, and instantly
departed.  His sunburnt face and gray hair were present to the citizens
mind for a moment; but by the time he reached three hundred and
eighty-one fat capons, he had quite forgotten him.
Joe Toddyhigh had never been in the capital of Europe before, and he
wandered up and down the streets that night amazed at the number of
churches and other public buildings, the splendour of the shops, the
riches that were heaped up on every side, the glare of light in which
they were displayed, and the concourse of people who hurried to and fro,
indifferent, apparently, to all the wonders that surrounded them.  But in
all the long streets and broad squares, there were none but strangers; it
was quite a relief to turn down a by-way and hear his own footsteps on
the pavement.  He went home to his inn, thought that London was a dreary,
desolate place, and felt disposed to doubt the existence of one
true-hearted man in the whole worshipful Company of Patten-makers.
Finally, he went to bed, and dreamed that he and the Lord Mayor elect
were boys again.
He went next day to the dinner; and when in a burst of light and music,
and in the midst of splendid decorations and surrounded by brilliant
company, his former friend appeared at the head of the Hall, and was
hailed with shouts and cheering, he cheered and shouted with the best,
and for the moment could have cried.  The next moment he cursed his
weakness in behalf of a man so changed and selfish, and quite hated a
jolly-looking old gentleman opposite for declaring himself in the pride
of his heart a Patten-maker.
As the banquet proceeded, he took more and more to heart the rich
citizens unkindness; and that, not from any envy, but because he felt
that a man of his state and fortune could all the better afford to
recognise an old friend, even if he were poor and obscure.  The more he
thought of this, the more lonely and sad he felt.  When the company
dispersed and adjourned to the ball-room, he paced the hall and passages
alone, ruminating in a very melancholy condition upon the disappointment
he had experienced.
