See! cries Goblin.  There the furnace was.  There they made the irons
red-hot.  Those holes supported the sharp stake, on which the tortured
persons hung poised: dangling with their whole weight from the roof.
But; and Goblin whispers this; Monsieur has heard of this tower?  Yes?
Let Monsieur look down, then!
A cold air, laden with an earthy smell, falls upon the face of Monsieur;
for she has opened, while speaking, a trap-door in the wall.  Monsieur
looks in.  Downward to the bottom, upward to the top, of a steep, dark,
lofty tower: very dismal, very dark, very cold.  The Executioner of the
Inquisition, says Goblin, edging in her head to look down also, flung
those who were past all further torturing, down here.  But look! does
Monsieur see the black stains on the wall?  A glance, over his shoulder,
at Goblins keen eye, shows Monsieurand would without the aid of the
directing keywhere they are.  What are they?  Blood!
In October, 1791, when the Revolution was at its height here, sixty
persons: men and women (and priests, says Goblin, priests): were
murdered, and hurled, the dying and the dead, into this dreadful pit,
where a quantity of quick-lime was tumbled down upon their bodies.  Those
ghastly tokens of the massacre were soon no more; but while one stone of
the strong building in which the deed was done, remains upon another,
there they will lie in the memories of men, as plain to see as the
splashing of their blood upon the wall is now.
Was it a portion of the great scheme of Retribution, that the cruel deed
should be committed in this place!  That a part of the atrocities and
monstrous institutions, which had been, for scores of years, at work, to
change mens nature, should in its last service, tempt them with the
ready means of gratifying their furious and beastly rage!  Should enable
them to show themselves, in the height of their frenzy, no worse than a
great, solemn, legal establishment, in the height of its power!  No
worse!  Much better.  They used the Tower of the Forgotten, in the name
of Libertytheir liberty; an earth-born creature, nursed in the black mud
of the Bastile moats and dungeons, and necessarily betraying many
evidences of its unwholesome bringing-upbut the Inquisition used it in
the name of Heaven.
Goblins finger is lifted; and she steals out again, into the Chapel of
the Holy Office.  She stops at a certain part of the flooring.  Her great
effect is at hand.  She waits for the rest.  She darts at the brave
Courier, who is explaining something; hits him a sounding rap on the hat
with the largest key; and bids him be silent.  She assembles us all,
round a little trap-door in the floor, as round a grave.
Voila! she darts down at the ring, and flings the door open with a
crash, in her goblin energy, though it is no light weight.  Voila les
oubliettes!  Voila les oubliettes!  Subterranean! Frightful!  Black!
Terrible!  Deadly!  Les oubliettes de lInquisition!
