Our President has alluded to those writings which have been my occupation
for some years past; and you have received his allusions in a manner
which assures meif I needed any such assurancethat we are old friends
in the spirit, and have been in close communion for a long time.
It is not easy for a man to speak of his own books.  I daresay that few
persons have been more interested in mine than I, and if it be a general
principle in nature that a lovers love is blind, and that a mothers
love is blind, I believe it may be said of an authors attachment to the
creatures of his own imagination, that it is a perfect model of constancy
and devotion, and is the blindest of all.  But the objects and purposes I
have had in view are very plain and simple, and may be easily told.  I
have always had, and always shall have, an earnest and true desire to
contribute, as far as in me lies, to the common stock of healthful
cheerfulness and enjoyment.  I have always had, and always shall have, an
invincible repugnance to that mole-eyed philosophy which loves the
darkness, and winks and scowls in the light.  I believe that Virtue shows
quite as well in rags and patches, as she does in purple and fine linen.
I believe that she and every beautiful object in external nature, claims
some sympathy in the breast of the poorest man who breaks his scanty loaf
of daily bread.  I believe that she goes barefoot as well as shod.  I
believe that she dwells rather oftener in alleys and by-ways than she
does in courts and palaces, and that it is good, and pleasant, and
profitable to track her out, and follow her.  I believe that to lay ones
hand upon some of those rejected ones whom the world has too long
forgotten, and too often misused, and to say to the proudest and most
thoughtlessThese creatures have the same elements and capacities of
goodness as yourselves, they are moulded in the same form, and made of
the same clay; and though ten times worse than you, may, in having
retained anything of their original nature amidst the trials and
distresses of their condition, be really ten times better; I believe
that to do this is to pursue a worthy and not useless vocation.
Gentlemen, that you think so too, your fervent greeting sufficiently
assures me.  That this feeling is alive in the Old World as well as in
the New, no man should know better than II, who have found such wide and
ready sympathy in my own dear land.  That in expressing it, we are but
treading in the steps of those great master-spirits who have gone before,
we know by reference to all the bright examples in our literature, from
Shakespeare downward.
There is one other point connected with the labours (if I may call them
so) that you hold in such generous esteem, to which I cannot help
adverting.  I cannot help expressing the delight, the more than happiness
it was to me to find so strong an interest awakened on this side of the
water, in favour of that little heroine of mine, to whom your president
has made allusion, who died in her youth.  I had letters about that
child, in England, from the dwellers in log-houses among the morasses,
and swamps, and densest forests, and deep solitudes of the far west.
Many a sturdy hand, hard with the axe and spade, and browned by the
summers sun, has taken up the pen, and written to me a little history of
domestic joy or sorrow, always coupled, I am proud to say, with something
of interest in that little tale, or some comfort or happiness derived
from it, and my correspondent has always addressed me, not as a writer of
books for sale, resident some four or five thousand miles away, but as a
friend to whom he might freely impart the joys and sorrows of his own
fireside.  Many a motherI could reckon them now by dozens, not by
unitshas done the like, and has told me how she lost such a child at
such a time, and where she lay buried, and how good she was, and how, in
this or that respect, she resembles Nell.  I do assure you that no
circumstance of my life has given me one hundredth part of the
gratification I have derived from this source.  I was wavering at the
time whether or not to wind up my Clock, {61} and come and see this
country, and this decided me.  I felt as if it were a positive duty, as
if I were bound to pack up my clothes, and come and see my friends; and
even now I have such an odd sensation in connexion with these things,
that you have no chance of spoiling me.  I feel as though we were
agreeingas indeed we are, if we substitute for fictitious characters the
classes from which they are drawnabout third parties, in whom we had a
common interest.  At every new act of kindness on your part, I say to
myself Thats for Oliver; I should not wonder if that was meant for
Smike; I have no doubt that is intended for Nell; and so I become a much
happier, certainly, but a more sober and retiring man than ever I was
before.
