But it is something to be no stranger in a strange placeto feel, sitting
at a board for the first time, the ease and affection of an old guest,
and to be at once on such intimate terms with the family as to have a
homely, genuine interest in its every memberit is, I say, something to
be in this novel and happy frame of mind.  And, as it is of your
creation, and owes its being to you, I have no reluctance in urging it as
a reason why, in addressing you, I should not so much consult the form
and fashion of my speech, as I should employ that universal language of
the heart, which you, and such as you, best teach, and best can
understand.  Gentlemen, in that universal languagecommon to you in
America, and to us in England, as that younger mother-tongue, which, by
the means of, and through the happy union of our two great countries,
shall be spoken ages hence, by land and sea, over the wide surface of the
globeI thank you.
I had occasion to say the other night in Boston, as I have more than once
had occasion to remark before, that it is not easy for an author to speak
of his own books.  If the task be a difficult one at any time, its
difficulty, certainly, is not diminished when a frequent recurrence to
the same theme has left one nothing new to say.  Still, I feel that, in a
company like this, and especially after what has been said by the
President, that I ought not to pass lightly over those labours of love,
which, if they had no other merit, have been the happy means of bringing
us together.
It has been often observed, that you cannot judge of an authors personal
character from his writings.  It may be that you cannot.  I think it very
likely, for many reasons, that you cannot.  But, at least, a reader will
rise from the perusal of a book with some defined and tangible idea of
the writers moral creed and broad purposes, if he has any at all; and it
is probable enough that he may like to have this idea confirmed from the
authors lips, or dissipated by his explanation.  Gentlemen, my moral
creedwhich is a very wide and comprehensive one, and includes all sects
and partiesis very easily summed up.  I have faith, and I wish to
diffuse faith in the existenceyes, of beautiful things, even in those
conditions of society, which are so degenerate, degraded, and forlorn,
that, at first sight, it would seem as though they could not be described
but by a strange and terrible reversal of the words of Scripture, God
said, Let there be light, and there was none.  I take it that we are
born, and that we hold our sympathies, hopes, and energies, in trust for
the many, and not for the few.  That we cannot hold in too strong a light
of disgust and contempt, before the view of others, all meanness,
falsehood, cruelty, and oppression, of every grade and kind.  Above all,
that nothing is high, because it is in a high place; and that nothing is
low, because it is in a low one.  This is the lesson taught us in the
great book of nature.  This is the lesson which may be read, alike in the
bright track of the stars, and in the dusty course of the poorest thing
that drags its tiny length upon the ground.  This is the lesson ever
uppermost in the thoughts of that inspired man, who tells us that there
are
