                                * * * * *
Later in the evening, in proposing the health of Professor Wilson, Mr.
Dickens said:
I HAVE the honour to be entrusted with a toast, the very mention of which
will recommend itself to you, I know, as one possessing no ordinary
claims to your sympathy and approbation, and the proposing of which is as
congenial to my wishes and feelings as its acceptance must be to yours.
It is the health of our Chairman, and coupled with his name I have to
propose the literature of Scotlanda literature which he has done much to
render famous through the world, and of which he has been for many
yearsas I hope and believe he will be for many morea most brilliant and
distinguished ornament.  Who can revert to the literature of the land of
Scott and of Burns without having directly in his mind, as inseparable
from the subject and foremost in the picture, that old man of might, with
his lion heart and sceptred crutchChristopher North.  I am glad to
remember the time when I believed him to be a real, actual, veritable old
gentleman, that might be seen any day hobbling along the High Street with
the most brilliant eyebut that is no fictionand the greyest hair in all
the worldwho wrote not because he cared to write, not because he cared
for the wonder and admiration of his fellow-men, but who wrote because he
could not help it, because there was always springing up in his mind a
clear and sparkling stream of poetry which must have vent, and like the
glittering fountain in the fairy tale, draw what you might, was ever at
the full, and never languished even by a single drop or bubble.  I had so
figured him in my mind, and when I saw the Professor two days ago,
striding along the Parliament House, I was disposed to take it as a
personal offenceI was vexed to see him look so hearty.  I drooped to see
twenty Christophers in one.  I began to think that Scottish life was all
light and no shadows, and I began to doubt that beautiful book to which I
have turned again and again, always to find new beauties and fresh
sources of interest.
                                * * * * *
In proposing the memory of the late Sir David Wilkie, Mr. Dickens said:
LESS fortunate than the two gentlemen who have preceded me, it is
confided to me to mention a name which cannot be pronounced without
sorrow, a name in which Scotland had a great triumph, and which England
delighted to honour.  One of the gifted of the earth has passed away, as
it were, yesterday; one who was devoted to his art, and his art was
natureI mean David Wilkie. {53}  He was one who made the cottage hearth
a graceful thingof whom it might truly be said that he found books in
the running brooks, and who has left in all he did some breathing of the
air which stirs the heather.  But however desirous to enlarge on his
genius as an artist, I would rather speak of him now as a friend who has
gone from amongst us.  There is his deserted studiothe empty easel lying
idly bythe unfinished picture with its face turned to the wall, and
there is that bereaved sister, who loved him with an affection which
death cannot quench.  He has left a name in fame clear as the bright sky;
he has filled our minds with memories pure as the blue waves which roll
over him.  Let us hope that she who more than all others mourns his loss,
may learn to reflect that he died in the fulness of his time, before age
or sickness had dimmed his powersand that she may yet associate with
feelings as calm and pleasant as we do now the memory of Wilkie.
