Dickens now and then administers a little gentle rebuke to affectation,
in a pleasant but unmistakable manner.  Here is an instance of how he
silenced a bilious young writer, who was inveighing against the world in
a very forcible feeble manner.  During a pause in this philippic
against the human race, Dickens said across the table, in the most
self-congratulatory of tones:I saywhat a lucky thing it is you and I
dont belong to it?  It reminds me, continued the author of Pickwick,
of the two men, who on a _raised_ scaffold were awaiting the final
delicate attention of the hangman; the notice of one was aroused by
observing that a bull had got into the crowd of spectators, and was
busily employed in tossing one here, and another there; whereupon one of
the criminals said to the otherI say, Bill, how _lucky it is_ for us
that we _are up here_.
                                * * * * *
Here is a humorous and graphic account which he sent to the leading
newspaper of his sensations during the shock of earthquake that was felt
all over England in October, 1863.  It is doubly interesting, as giving a
description of his country-house at Gads-hill, near Rochester:
    I was awakened by a violent swaying of my bedstead from side to
    side, accompanied by a singular heaving motion.  It was exactly as if
    some great beast had been crouching asleep under the bedstead, and
    were now shaking itself and trying to rise.  The time by my watch was
    twenty minutes past three, and I suppose the shock to have lasted
    nearly a minute.  The bedstead, a large iron one, standing nearly
    north and south, appeared to me to be the only piece of furniture in
    the room that was heavily shaken.  Neither the doors nor the windows
    rattled, though they rattle enough in windy weather, this house
    standing alone, on high ground, in the neighbourhood of two great
    rivers.  There was no noise.  The air was very still, and much warmer
    than it had been in the earlier part of the night.  Although the
    previous afternoon had been wet, the glass had not fallen.  I had
    mentioned my surprise at its standing near the letter i in Fair,
    and having a tendency to rise.
                                * * * * *
But the thing which, above all others, has characterised Dickens
throughout his career, that has made his world-wide fame, and rendered
his name a household word, is his broad, genial sympathy with life in all
its phases, and with those most who are manfully toiling towards a better
day.  To this enthusiasm of humanity John Forster has alluded in the
Dedicatory Sonnet to Charles Dickens, prefixed to his Life of
Goldsmith, (March, 1848), when he says:
          Come with me and behold,
    O friend with heart as gentle for distress,
    As resolute with wise true thoughts to bind
    The happiest to the unhappiest of our kind,
    That there is fiercer crowded misery
    In garret-toil and London loneliness
    Than in cruel islands mid the far-off sea.
