A very bright and nimble little matron, with a bunch of keys in her hand,
responded to my request to see the House.  I began to doubt whether the
police magistrate was quite right in his facts, when I noticed her quick,
active little figure and her intelligent eyes.
The Traveller (the matron intimated) should see the worst first.  He was
welcome to see everything.  Such as it was, there it all was.
This was the only preparation for our entering the Foul wards.  They
were in an old building squeezed away in a corner of a paved yard, quite
detached from the more modern and spacious main body of the workhouse.
They were in a building most monstrously behind the timea mere series of
garrets or lofts, with every inconvenient and objectionable circumstance
in their construction, and only accessible by steep and narrow
staircases, infamously ill-adapted for the passage up-stairs of the sick
or down-stairs of the dead.
A-bed in these miserable rooms, here on bedsteads, there (for a change,
as I understood it) on the floor, were women in every stage of distress
and disease.  None but those who have attentively observed such scenes,
can conceive the extraordinary variety of expression still latent under
the general monotony and uniformity of colour, attitude, and condition.
The form a little coiled up and turned away, as though it had turned its
back on this world for ever; the uninterested face at once lead-coloured
and yellow, looking passively upward from the pillow; the haggard mouth a
little dropped, the hand outside the coverlet, so dull and indifferent,
so light, and yet so heavy; these were on every pallet; but when I
stopped beside a bed, and said ever so slight a word to the figure lying
there, the ghost of the old character came into the face, and made the
Foul ward as various as the fair world.  No one appeared to care to live,
but no one complained; all who could speak, said that as much was done
for them as could be done there, that the attendance was kind and
patient, that their suffering was very heavy, but they had nothing to ask
for.  The wretched rooms were as clean and sweet as it is possible for
such rooms to be; they would become a pest-house in a single week, if
they were ill-kept.
I accompanied the brisk matron up another barbarous staircase, into a
better kind of loft devoted to the idiotic and imbecile.  There was at
least Light in it, whereas the windows in the former wards had been like
sides of school-boys bird-cages.  There was a strong grating over the
fire here, and, holding a kind of state on either side of the hearth,
separated by the breadth of this grating, were two old ladies in a
condition of feeble dignity, which was surely the very last and lowest
reduction of self-complacency to be found in this wonderful humanity of
ours.  They were evidently jealous of each other, and passed their whole
time (as some people do, whose fires are not grated) in mentally
disparaging each other, and contemptuously watching their neighbours.
One of these parodies on provincial gentlewomen was extremely talkative,
and expressed a strong desire to attend the service on Sundays, from
which she represented herself to have derived the greatest interest and
consolation when allowed that privilege.  She gossiped so well, and
looked altogether so cheery and harmless, that I began to think this a
case for the Eastern magistrate, until I found that on the last occasion
of her attending chapel she had secreted a small stick, and had caused
some confusion in the responses by suddenly producing it and belabouring
the congregation.
