The opinion was not the result of hasty consideration, for which indeed
there was no opportunity at that time, as the child came directly, and
soon occupied herself in preparations for giving Kit a writing lesson,
of which it seemed he had a couple every week, and one regularly on
that evening, to the great mirth and enjoyment both of himself and his
instructress. To relate how it was a long time before his modesty could
be so far prevailed upon as it admit of his sitting down in the
parlour, in the presence of an unknown gentleman--how, when he did set
down, he tucked up his sleeves and squared his elbows and put his face
close to the copy-book and squinted horribly at the lines--how, from
the very first moment of having the pen in his hand, he began to wallow
in blots, and to daub himself with ink up to the very roots of his
hair--how, if he did by accident form a letter properly, he immediately
smeared it out again with his arm in his preparations to make
another--how, at every fresh mistake, there was a fresh burst of
merriment from the child and louder and not less hearty laugh from poor
Kit himself--and how there was all the way through, notwithstanding, a
gentle wish on her part to teach, and an anxious desire on his to
learn--to relate all these particulars would no doubt occupy more space
and time than they deserve. It will be sufficient to say that the
lesson was given--that evening passed and night came on--that the old
man again grew restless and impatient--that he quitted the house
secretly at the same hour as before--and that the child was once more
left alone within its gloomy walls.
And now that I have carried this history so far in my own character and
introduced these personages to the reader, I shall for the convenience
of the narrative detach myself from its further course, and leave those
who have prominent and necessary parts in it to speak and act for
themselves.
CHAPTER 4
Mr and Mrs Quilp resided on Tower Hill; and in her bower on Tower Hill
Mrs Quilp was left to pine the absence of her lord, when he quitted her
on the business which he had already seen to transact.
Mr Quilp could scarcely be said to be of any particular trade or
calling, though his pursuits were diversified and his occupations
numerous. He collected the rents of whole colonies of filthy streets
and alleys by the waterside, advanced money to the seamen and petty
officers of merchant vessels, had a share in the ventures of divers
mates of East Indiamen, smoked his smuggled cigars under the very nose
of the Custom House, and made appointments on 'Change with men in
glazed hats and round jackets pretty well every day. On the Surrey side
of the river was a small rat-infested dreary yard called 'Quilp's
Wharf,' in which were a little wooden counting-house burrowing all awry
in the dust as if it had fallen from the clouds and ploughed into the
ground; a few fragments of rusty anchors; several large iron rings;
some piles of rotten wood; and two or three heaps of old sheet copper,
crumpled, cracked, and battered. On Quilp's Wharf, Daniel Quilp was a
ship-breaker, yet to judge from these appearances he must either have
been a ship-breaker on a very small scale, or have broken his ships up
very small indeed. Neither did the place present any extraordinary
aspect of life or activity, as its only human occupant was an
amphibious boy in a canvas suit, whose sole change of occupation was
from sitting on the head of a pile and throwing stones into the mud
when the tide was out, to standing with his hands in his pockets gazing
listlessly on the motion and on the bustle of the river at high-water.
