I had yet other matter for reflection as I journeyed home, inasmuch as,
before I altogether departed from the neighbourhood of Mr. Bakers trap,
I had knocked at the gate of the workhouse of St. Georges-in-the-East,
and had found it to be an establishment highly creditable to those parts,
and thoroughly well administered by a most intelligent master.  I
remarked in it, an instance of the collateral harm that obstinate vanity
and folly can do.  This was the Hall where those old paupers, male and
female, whom I had just seen, met for the Church service, was
it?Yes.Did they sing the Psalms to any instrument?They would
like to, very much; they would have an extraordinary interest in doing
so.And could none be got?Well, a piano could even have been got for
nothing, but these unfortunate dissensions  Ah! better, far better, my
Christian friend in the beautiful garment, to have let the singing boys
alone, and left the multitude to sing for themselves!  You should know
better than I, but I think I have read that they did so, once upon a
time, and that when they had sung an hymn, Some one (not in a beautiful
garment) went up into the Mount of Olives.
It made my heart ache to think of this miserable trifling, in the streets
of a city where every stone seemed to call to me, as I walked along,
Turn this way, man, and see what waits to be done!  So I decoyed myself
into another train of thought to ease my heart.  But, I dont know that I
did it, for I was so full of paupers, that it was, after all, only a
change to a single pauper, who took possession of my remembrance instead
of a thousand.
I beg your pardon, sir, he had said, in a confidential manner, on
another occasion, taking me aside; but I have seen better days.
I am very sorry to hear it.
Sir, I have a complaint to make against the master.
I have no power here, I assure you.  And if I had
But, allow me, sir, to mention it, as between yourself and a man who has
seen better days, sir.  The master and myself are both masons, sir, and I
make him the sign continually; but, because I am in this unfortunate
position, sir, he wont give me the counter-sign!
IV
TWO VIEWS OF A CHEAP THEATRE
AS I shut the door of my lodging behind me, and came out into the streets
at six on a drizzling Saturday evening in the last past month of January,
all that neighbourhood of Covent-garden looked very desolate.  It is so
essentially a neighbourhood which has seen better days, that bad weather
affects it sooner than another place which has not come down in the
World.  In its present reduced condition it bears a thaw almost worse
than any place I know.  It gets so dreadfully low-spirited when damp
breaks forth.  Those wonderful houses about Drury-lane Theatre, which in
the palmy days of theatres were prosperous and long-settled places of
business, and which now change hands every week, but never change their
character of being divided and sub-divided on the ground floor into
mouldy dens of shops where an orange and half-a-dozen nuts, or a
pomatum-pot, one cake of fancy soap, and a cigar box, are offered for
sale and never sold, were most ruefully contemplated that evening, by the
statue of Shakespeare, with the rain-drops coursing one another down its
innocent nose.  Those inscrutable pigeon-hole offices, with nothing in
them (not so much as an inkstand) but a model of a theatre before the
curtain, where, in the Italian Opera season, tickets at reduced prices
are kept on sale by nomadic gentlemen in smeary hats too tall for them,
whom one occasionally seems to have seen on race-courses, not wholly
unconnected with strips of cloth of various colours and a rolling
ballthose Bedouin establishments, deserted by the tribe, and tenantless,
except when sheltering in one corner an irregular row of ginger-beer
bottles, which would have made one shudder on such a night, but for its
being plain that they had nothing in them, shrunk from the shrill cries
of the news-boys at their Exchange in the kennel of Catherine-street,
like guilty things upon a fearful summons.  At the pipe-shop in Great
Russell-street, the Deaths-head pipes were like theatrical memento mori,
admonishing beholders of the decline of the playhouse as an Institution.
I walked up Bow-street, disposed to be angry with the shops there, that
were letting out theatrical secrets by exhibiting to work-a-day humanity
the stuff of which diadems and robes of kings are made.  I noticed that
some shops which had once been in the dramatic line, and had struggled
out of it, were not getting on prosperouslylike some actors I have
known, who took to business and failed to make it answer.  In a word,
those streets looked so dull, and, considered as theatrical streets, so
broken and bankrupt, that the FOUND DEAD on the black board at the police
station might have announced the decease of the Drama, and the pools of
water outside the fire-engine makers at the corner of Long-acre might
have been occasioned by his having brought out the whole of his stock to
play upon its last smouldering ashes.
