The time appointed for the conclusion of the proceedings was eight
oclock.  The address having lasted until full that time, and it being
the custom to conclude with a hymn, the preacher intimated in a few
sensible words that the clock had struck the hour, and that those who
desired to go before the hymn was sung, could go now, without giving
offence.  No one stirred.  The hymn was then sung, in good time and tune
and unison, and its effect was very striking.  A comprehensive benevolent
prayer dismissed the throng, and in seven or eight minutes there was
nothing left in the Theatre but a light cloud of dust.
That these Sunday meetings in Theatres are good things, I do not doubt.
Nor do I doubt that they will work lower and lower down in the social
scale, if those who preside over them will be very careful on two heads:
firstly, not to disparage the places in which they speak, or the
intelligence of their hearers; secondly, not to set themselves in
antagonism to the natural inborn desire of the mass of mankind to
recreate themselves and to be amused.
There is a third head, taking precedence of all others, to which my
remarks on the discourse I heard, have tended.  In the New Testament
there is the most beautiful and affecting history conceivable by man, and
there are the terse models for all prayer and for all preaching.  As to
the models, imitate them, Sunday preacherselse why are they there,
consider?  As to the history, tell it.  Some people cannot read, some
people will not read, many people (this especially holds among the young
and ignorant) find it hard to pursue the verse-form in which the book is
presented to them, and imagine that those breaks imply gaps and want of
continuity.  Help them over that first stumbling-block, by setting forth
the history in narrative, with no fear of exhausting it.  You will never
preach so well, you will never move them so profoundly, you will never
send them away with half so much to think of.  Which is the better
interest: Christs choice of twelve poor men to help in those merciful
wonders among the poor and rejected; or the pious bullying of a whole
Union-full of paupers?  What is your changed philosopher to wretched me,
peeping in at the door out of the mud of the streets and of my life, when
you have the widows son to tell me about, the rulers daughter, the
other figure at the door when the brother of the two sisters was dead,
and one of the two ran to the mourner, crying, The Master is come and
calleth for thee?Let the preacher who will thoroughly forget himself
and remember no individuality but one, and no eloquence but one, stand up
before four thousand men and women at the Britannia Theatre any Sunday
night, recounting that narrative to them as fellow creatures, and he
shall see a sight!
V
POOR MERCANTILE JACK
