Among the bedridden there was great patience, great reliance on the books
under the pillow, great faith in GOD.  All cared for sympathy, but none
much cared to be encouraged with hope of recovery; on the whole, I should
say, it was considered rather a distinction to have a complication of
disorders, and to be in a worse way than the rest.  From some of the
windows, the river could be seen with all its life and movement; the day
was bright, but I came upon no one who was looking out.
In one large ward, sitting by the fire in arm-chairs of distinction, like
the President and Vice of the good company, were two old women, upwards
of ninety years of age.  The younger of the two, just turned ninety, was
deaf, but not very, and could easily be made to hear.  In her early time
she had nursed a child, who was now another old woman, more infirm than
herself, inhabiting the very same chamber.  She perfectly understood this
when the matron told it, and, with sundry nods and motions of her
forefinger, pointed out the woman in question.  The elder of this pair,
ninety-three, seated before an illustrated newspaper (but not reading
it), was a bright-eyed old soul, really not deaf, wonderfully preserved,
and amazingly conversational.  She had not long lost her husband, and had
been in that place little more than a year.  At Boston, in the State of
Massachusetts, this poor creature would have been individually addressed,
would have been tended in her own room, and would have had her life
gently assimilated to a comfortable life out of doors.  Would that be
much to do in England for a woman who has kept herself out of a workhouse
more than ninety rough long years?  When Britain first, at Heavens
command, arose, with a great deal of allegorical confusion, from out the
azure main, did her guardian angels positively forbid it in the Charter
which has been so much besung?
The object of my journey was accomplished when the nimble matron had no
more to show me.  As I shook hands with her at the gate, I told her that
I thought justice had not used her very well, and that the wise men of
the East were not infallible.
Now, I reasoned with myself, as I made my journey home again, concerning
those Foul wards.  They ought not to exist; no person of common decency
and humanity can see them and doubt it.  But what is this Union to do?
The necessary alteration would cost several thousands of pounds; it has
already to support three workhouses; its inhabitants work hard for their
bare lives, and are already rated for the relief of the Poor to the
utmost extent of reasonable endurance.  One poor parish in this very
Union is rated to the amount of FIVE AND SIXPENCE in the pound, at the
very same time when the rich parish of Saint Georges, Hanover-square, is
rated at about SEVENPENCE in the pound, Paddington at about FOURPENCE,
Saint Jamess, Westminster, at about TENPENCE!  It is only through the
equalisation of Poor Rates that what is left undone in this wise, can be
done.  Much more is left undone, or is ill-done, than I have space to
suggest in these notes of a single uncommercial journey; but, the wise
men of the East, before they can reasonably hold forth about it, must
look to the North and South and West; let them also, any morning before
taking the seat of Solomon, look into the shops and dwellings all around
the Temple, and first ask themselves how much more can these poor
peoplemany of whom keep themselves with difficulty enough out of the
workhousebear?
