We were, in number and in character, as follows:
Firstto get my sister and myself out of the waythere were we two.  In
the drawing of lots, my sister drew her own room, and I drew Master B.s.
Next, there was our first cousin John Herschel, so called after the great
astronomer: than whom I suppose a better man at a telescope does not
breathe.  With him, was his wife: a charming creature to whom he had been
married in the previous spring.  I thought it (under the circumstances)
rather imprudent to bring her, because there is no knowing what even a
false alarm may do at such a time; but I suppose he knew his own business
best, and I must say that if she had been _my_ wife, I never could have
left her endearing and bright face behind.  They drew the Clock Room.
Alfred Starling, an uncommonly agreeable young fellow of eight-and-twenty
for whom I have the greatest liking, was in the Double Room; mine,
usually, and designated by that name from having a dressing-room within
it, with two large and cumbersome windows, which no wedges _I_ was ever
able to make, would keep from shaking, in any weather, wind or no wind.
Alfred is a young fellow who pretends to be fast (another word for
loose, as I understand the term), but who is much too good and sensible
for that nonsense, and who would have distinguished himself before now,
if his father had not unfortunately left him a small independence of two
hundred a year, on the strength of which his only occupation in life has
been to spend six.  I am in hopes, however, that his Banker may break, or
that he may enter into some speculation guaranteed to pay twenty per
cent.; for, I am convinced that if he could only be ruined, his fortune
is made.  Belinda Bates, bosom friend of my sister, and a most
intellectual, amiable, and delightful girl, got the Picture Room.  She
has a fine genius for poetry, combined with real business earnestness,
and goes into use an expression of Alfredsfor Womans mission,
Womans rights, Womans wrongs, and everything that is womans with a
capital W, or is not and ought to be, or is and ought not to be.  Most
praiseworthy, my dear, and Heaven prosper you! I whispered to her on the
first night of my taking leave of her at the Picture-Room door, but
dont overdo it.  And in respect of the great necessity there is, my
darling, for more employments being within the reach of Woman than our
civilisation has as yet assigned to her, dont fly at the unfortunate
men, even those men who are at first sight in your way, as if they were
the natural oppressors of your sex; for, trust me, Belinda, they do
sometimes spend their wages among wives and daughters, sisters, mothers,
aunts, and grandmothers; and the play is, really, not _all_ Wolf and Red
Riding-Hood, but has other parts in it.  However, I digress.
