We had a few night alarms in the beginning.  On the first night, I was
knocked up by Jack with a most wonderful ships lantern in his hand, like
the gills of some monster of the deep, who informed me that he was going
aloft to the main truck, to have the weathercock down.  It was a stormy
night and I remonstrated; but Jack called my attention to its making a
sound like a cry of despair, and said somebody would be hailing a ghost
presently, if it wasnt done.  So, up to the top of the house, where I
could hardly stand for the wind, we went, accompanied by Mr. Beaver; and
there Jack, lantern and all, with Mr. Beaver after him, swarmed up to the
top of a cupola, some two dozen feet above the chimneys, and stood upon
nothing particular, coolly knocking the weathercock off, until they both
got into such good spirits with the wind and the height, that I thought
they would never come down.  Another night, they turned out again, and
had a chimney-cowl off.  Another night, they cut a sobbing and gulping
water-pipe away.  Another night, they found out something else.  On
several occasions, they both, in the coolest manner, simultaneously
dropped out of their respective bedroom windows, hand over hand by their
counterpanes, to overhaul something mysterious in the garden.
The engagement among us was faithfully kept, and nobody revealed
anything.  All we knew was, if any ones room were haunted, no one looked
the worse for it.
THE GHOST IN MASTER B.S ROOM.
WHEN I established myself in the triangular garret which had gained so
distinguished a reputation, my thoughts naturally turned to Master B.  My
speculations about him were uneasy and manifold.  Whether his Christian
name was Benjamin, Bissextile (from his having been born in Leap Year),
Bartholomew, or Bill.  Whether the initial letter belonged to his family
name, and that was Baxter, Black, Brown, Barker, Buggins, Baker, or Bird.
Whether he was a foundling, and had been baptized B.  Whether he was a
lion-hearted boy, and B. was short for Briton, or for Bull.  Whether he
could possibly have been kith and kin to an illustrious lady who
brightened my own childhood, and had come of the blood of the brilliant
Mother Bunch?
With these profitless meditations I tormented myself much.  I also
carried the mysterious letter into the appearance and pursuits of the
deceased; wondering whether he dressed in Blue, wore Boots (he couldnt
have been Bald), was a boy of Brains, liked Books, was good at Bowling,
had any skill as a Boxer, even in his Buoyant Boyhood Bathed from a
Bathing-machine at Bognor, Bangor, Bournemouth, Brighton, or Broadstairs,
like a Bounding Billiard Ball?
So, from the first, I was haunted by the letter B.
It was not long before I remarked that I never by any hazard had a dream
of Master B., or of anything belonging to him.  But, the instant I awoke
from sleep, at whatever hour of the night, my thoughts took him up, and
roamed away, trying to attach his initial letter to something that would
fit it and keep it quiet.
