  _Sine honore vivam, nulloque numero ero_.
  _Without men's honours I will live, and make_
  _No number in the manless course they take._
But, to discourage (if it might be) the general detraction of
industrious and well-meaning virtue, I know I cannot too much
diminish and deject myself; yet that passing little that I am, God
only knows, to Whose ever-implored respect and comfort I only submit
me. If any further edition of these my silly endeavours shall chance,
I will mend what is amiss (God assisting me) and amplify my harsh
Comment to Homer's far more right, and mine own earnest and ingenious
love of him. Notwithstanding, I know, the curious and envious will
never sit down satisfied. A man may go over and over, till he come
over and over, and his pains be only his recompense, every man is so
loaded with his particular head, and nothing in all respects perfect,
but what is perceived by few. Homer himself hath met with my fortune,
in many maligners; and therefore may my poor self put up without
motion. And so little I will respect malignity, and so much encourage
myself with mine own known strength, and what I find within me of
comfort and confirmance (examining myself throughout with a far more
jealous and severe eye than my greatest enemy, imitating this:
  _Judex ipse sui totum se explorat ad unguem, etc.)_
that after these Iliads, I will (God lending me life and any meanest
means) with more labour than I have lost here, and all unchecked
alacrity, dive through his Odysseys. Nor can I forget here (but with
all hearty gratitude remember) my most ancient, learned, and right
noble friend, M. Richard Stapilton, first most desertful mover in the
frame of our Homer. For which (and much other most ingenious and
utterly undeserved desert) God make me amply his requiter; and be his
honourable family's speedy and full restorer. In the mean space, I
entreat my impartial and judicial Reader, that all things to the
quick he will not pare, but humanely and nobly pardon defects, and,
if he find anything perfect, receive it unenvied.
  OF HOMER
Of his country and time, the difference is so infinite amongst all
writers, that there is no question, in my conjecture, of his
antiquity beyond all. To which opinion, the nearest I will cite, Adam
Cedrenus placeth him under David's and Solomon's rule; and the
Destruction of Troy under Saul's. And of one age with Solomon,
Michael Glycas Siculus affirmeth him. Aristotle (_in tertio de
Poeticâ_) affirms he was born in the isle of Io, begot of a Genius,
one of them that used to dance with the Muses, and a virgin of that
isle compressed by that Genius, who being quick with child (for shame
of the deed) came into a place called Agina, and there was taken of
thieves, and brought to Smyrna, to Maon king of the Lydians, who for
her beauty married her. After which, she walking near the flood
Meletes, on that shore being overtaken with the throes of her
delivery, she brought forth Homer, and instantly died. The infant was
received by Maon, and brought up as his own till his death, which was
not long after. And, according to this, when the Lydians in Smyrna
were afflicted by the Aolians, and thought fit to leave the city, the
captains by a herald willing all to go out that would, and follow
them, Homer, being a little child, said he would also _<U+1F41>µ<U+03B7><U+03C1><U+03B5><U+03B9><U+0311><U+03BD>_
(that is, _sequi_); and of that, for Melesigenes, which was his first
name, he was called Homer. These Plutarch.
