"O friends, Grecian heroes, servants of Mars, Jove, the son of Saturn,
has entangled me in a heavy misfortune. Cruel, who before indeed
promised to me, and vouchsafed by his nod, that I should return home,
having destroyed well-fortified Ilium. But now he has devised an evil
deception, and commands me to return to Argos, inglorious, after I have
lost many of my people. So forsooth it appears to be agreeable to
all-powerful Jove, who has already overthrown the citadels of many
cities, yea, and will even yet overthrow them, for transcendent is his
power. For this were disgraceful even for posterity to hear, that so
brave and so numerous a people of the Greeks warred an ineffectual war,
and fought with fewer men; but as yet no end has appeared. For if we,
Greeks and Trojans, having struck a faithful league,[85] wished that
both should be numbered, and [wished] to select the Trojans, on the one
hand, as many as are townsmen; and if we Greeks, on the other hand, were
to be divided into decades, and to choose a single man of the Trojans to
pour out wine [for each decade], many decades would be without a
cupbearer.[86] So much more numerous, I say, the sons of the Greeks are
than the Trojans who dwell in the city. But there are spear-wielding
auxiliaries from many cities, who greatly stand in my way, and do not
permit me wishing to destroy the well-inhabited city. Already have nine
years of mighty Jove passed away, and now the timbers of our ships have
rotted, and the ropes have become untwisted.[87] Our wives and infant
children sit in our dwellings expecting us; but to us the work for which
we came hither remains unaccomplished, contrary to expectation. But
come, as I shall recommend, let us all obey; let us fly with the ships
to our dear native land, for at no future time shall we take wide-wayed
Troy."
   [Footnote 85: [Greek: Orkia] is probably used as an adjective,
   understanding [Greek: iereia], the victims that were slain in
   order to ratify the oath. See however Buttm. Lexil. p. 439.]
   [Footnote 86: The Greeks doubled the Trojans in number. See
   Anthon.]
   [Footnote 87: Observe the change of construction in [Greek:
   leluntai] with the neuter plural. Apollon. de Syntaxi, iii. 11.
   [Greek: Ta sparta leluntai katalleloteron tou doura sesepe].]
Thus he spoke; and to them he aroused the heart in their breasts, to all
throughout the multitude, whoever had not heard his scheme.[88] And the
assembly was moved, as the great waves of the Icarian Sea, which,
indeed, both the south-east wind and the south are wont to raise,[89]
rushing from the clouds of father Jove. And as when the west wind[90]
agitates the thick-standing corn, rushing down upon it impetuous, and it
[the crop] bends with its ears; so was all the assembly agitated. Some
with shouting rushed to the ships, but from beneath their feet the dust
stood suspended aloft; and some exhorted one another to seize the
vessels, and drag them to the great ocean; and they began to clear the
channels. The shout of them, eager [to return] home, rose to the sky,
and they withdrew the stays from beneath the vessels. Then truly a
return had happened to the Argives, contrary to destiny, had not Juno
addressed herself to Minerva:
