But the little Dwarf cared nothing for all this magnificence.  He would
not have given his rose for all the pearls on the canopy, nor one white
petal of his rose for the throne itself.  What he wanted was to see the
Infanta before she went down to the pavilion, and to ask her to come away
with him when he had finished his dance.  Here, in the Palace, the air
was close and heavy, but in the forest the wind blew free, and the
sunlight with wandering hands of gold moved the tremulous leaves aside.
There were flowers, too, in the forest, not so splendid, perhaps, as the
flowers in the garden, but more sweetly scented for all that; hyacinths
in early spring that flooded with waving purple the cool glens, and
grassy knolls; yellow primroses that nestled in little clumps round the
gnarled roots of the oak-trees; bright celandine, and blue speedwell, and
irises lilac and gold.  There were grey catkins on the hazels, and the
foxgloves drooped with the weight of their dappled bee-haunted cells.
The chestnut had its spires of white stars, and the hawthorn its pallid
moons of beauty.  Yes: surely she would come if he could only find her!
She would come with him to the fair forest, and all day long he would
dance for her delight.  A smile lit up his eyes at the thought, and he
passed into the next room.
Of all the rooms this was the brightest and the most beautiful.  The
walls were covered with a pink-flowered Lucca damask, patterned with
birds and dotted with dainty blossoms of silver; the furniture was of
massive silver, festooned with florid wreaths, and swinging Cupids; in
front of the two large fire-places stood great screens broidered with
parrots and peacocks, and the floor, which was of sea-green onyx, seemed
to stretch far away into the distance.  Nor was he alone.  Standing under
the shadow of the doorway, at the extreme end of the room, he saw a
little figure watching him.  His heart trembled, a cry of joy broke from
his lips, and he moved out into the sunlight.  As he did so, the figure
moved out also, and he saw it plainly.
The Infanta!  It was a monster, the most grotesque monster he had ever
beheld.  Not properly shaped, as all other people were, but hunchbacked,
and crooked-limbed, with huge lolling head and mane of black hair.  The
little Dwarf frowned, and the monster frowned also.  He laughed, and it
laughed with him, and held its hands to its sides, just as he himself was
doing.  He made it a mocking bow, and it returned him a low reverence.
He went towards it, and it came to meet him, copying each step that he
made, and stopping when he stopped himself.  He shouted with amusement,
and ran forward, and reached out his hand, and the hand of the monster
touched his, and it was as cold as ice.  He grew afraid, and moved his
hand across, and the monsterÂ’s hand followed it quickly.  He tried to
press on, but something smooth and hard stopped him.  The face of the
monster was now close to his own, and seemed full of terror.  He brushed
his hair off his eyes.  It imitated him.  He struck at it, and it
returned blow for blow.  He loathed it, and it made hideous faces at him.
He drew back, and it retreated.
