And this, too, was the opinion of Thucydides, whose _Archaologia_ as it
is contains a most valuable disquisition on the early condition of
Hellas, which it will be necessary to examine at some length.
Now, as regards the means employed generally by Thucydides for the
elucidation of ancient history, I have already pointed out how that,
while acknowledging that it is the tendency of every poet to exaggerate,
as it is of every chronicler to seek to be attractive at the expense of
truth, he yet assumes in the thoroughly euhemeristic way, that under the
veil of myth and legend there does yet exist a rational basis of fact
discoverable by the method of rejecting all supernatural interference as
well as any extraordinary motives influencing the actors.  It is in
complete accordance with this spirit that he appeals, for instance, to
the Homeric epithet of _<U+1F00><U+03C6><U+03BD><U+03B5><U+03B9><U+03CC><U+03C2>_, as applied to Corinth, as a proof of
the early commercial prosperity of that city; to the fact of the generic
name _Hellenes_ not occurring in the _Iliad_ as a corroboration of his
theory of the essentially disunited character of the primitive Greek
tribes; and he argues from the line Oer many islands and all Argos
ruled, as applied to Agamemnon, that his forces must have been partially
naval, for Agamemnons was a continental power, and he could not have
been master of any but the adjacent islands, and these would not be many
but through the possession of a fleet.
Anticipating in some measure the comparative method of research, he
argues from the fact of the more barbarous Greek tribes, such as the
Atolians and Acarnanians, still carrying arms in his own day, that this
custom was the case originally over the whole country.  The fact, he
says, that the people in these parts of Hellas are still living in the
old way points to a time when the same mode of life was equally common to
all.  Similarly, in another passage, he shows how a corroboration of his
theory of the respectable character of piracy in ancient days is afforded
by the honour with which some of the inhabitants of the continent still
regard a successful marauder, as well as by the fact that the question,
Are you a pirate? is a common feature of primitive society as shown in
the poets; and finally, after observing how the old Greek custom of
wearing belts in gymnastic contests still survived among the more
uncivilised Asiatic tribes, he observes that there are many other points
in which a likeness may be shown between the life of the primitive
Hellenes and that of the barbarians to-day.
As regards the evidence afforded by ancient remains, while adducing as a
proof of the insecure character of early Greek society the fact of their
cities {31} being always built at some distance from the sea, yet he is
careful to warn us, and the caution ought to be borne in mind by all
archaologists, that we have no right to conclude from the scanty remains
of any city that its legendary greatness in primitive times was a mere
exaggeration.  We are not justified, he says, in rejecting the
tradition of the magnitude of the Trojan armament, because Mycena and the
other towns of that age seem to us small and insignificant.  For, if
Lacedamon was to become desolate, any antiquarian judging merely from its
ruins would be inclined to regard the tale of the Spartan hegemony as an
idle myth; for the city is a mere collection of villages after the old
fashion of Hellas, and has none of those splendid public buildings and
temples which characterise Athens, and whose remains, in the case of the
latter city, would be so marvellous as to lead the superficial observer
into an exaggerated estimate of the Athenian power.  Nothing can be more
scientific than the archaological canons laid down, whose truth is
strikingly illustrated to any one who has compared the waste fields of
the Eurotas plain with the lordly monuments of the Athenian acropolis.
{32}
