CYRIL.  Ahem!  Another cigarette, please.
VIVIAN.  My dear fellow, whatever you may say, it is merely a dramatic
utterance, and no more represents Shakespeares real views upon art than
the speeches of Iago represent his real views upon morals.  But let me
get to the end of the passage:
Art finds her own perfection within, and not outside of, herself.  She
is not to be judged by any external standard of resemblance.  She is a
veil, rather than a mirror.  She has flowers that no forests know of,
birds that no woodland possesses.  She makes and unmakes many worlds, and
can draw the moon from heaven with a scarlet thread.  Hers are the forms
more real than living man, and hers the great archetypes of which things
that have existence are but unfinished copies.  Nature has, in her eyes,
no laws, no uniformity.  She can work miracles at her will, and when she
calls monsters from the deep they come.  She can bid the almond-tree
blossom in winter, and send the snow upon the ripe cornfield.  At her
word the frost lays its silver finger on the burning mouth of June, and
the winged lions creep out from the hollows of the Lydian hills.  The
dryads peer from the thicket as she passes by, and the brown fauns smile
strangely at her when she comes near them.  She has hawk-faced gods that
worship her, and the centaurs gallop at her side.
CYRIL.  I like that.  I can see it.  Is that the end?
VIVIAN.  No.  There is one more passage, but it is purely practical.  It
simply suggests some methods by which we could revive this lost art of
Lying.
CYRIL.  Well, before you read it to me, I should like to ask you a
question.  What do you mean by saying that life, poor, probable,
uninteresting human life, will try to reproduce the marvels of art?  I
can quite understand your objection to art being treated as a mirror.
You think it would reduce genius to the position of a cracked
looking-glass.  But you dont mean to say that you seriously believe that
Life imitates Art, that Life in fact is the mirror, and Art the reality?
VIVIAN.  Certainly I do.  Paradox though it may seemand paradoxes are
always dangerous thingsit is none the less true that Life imitates art
far more than Art imitates life.  We have all seen in our own day in
England how a certain curious and fascinating type of beauty, invented
and emphasised by two imaginative painters, has so influenced Life that
whenever one goes to a private view or to an artistic salon one sees,
here the mystic eyes of Rossettis dream, the long ivory throat, the
strange square-cut jaw, the loosened shadowy hair that he so ardently
loved, there the sweet maidenhood of The Golden Stair, the blossom-like
mouth and weary loveliness of the Laus Amoris, the passion-pale face of
Andromeda, the thin hands and lithe beauty of the Vivian in Merlins
Dream.  And it has always been so.  A great artist invents a type, and
Life tries to copy it, to reproduce it in a popular form, like an
enterprising publisher.  Neither Holbein nor Vandyck found in England
what they have given us.  They brought their types with them, and Life
with her keen imitative faculty set herself to supply the master with
models.  The Greeks, with their quick artistic instinct, understood this,
and set in the brides chamber the statue of Hermes or of Apollo, that
she might bear children as lovely as the works of art that she looked at
in her rapture or her pain.  They knew that Life gains from art not
merely spirituality, depth of thought and feeling, soul-turmoil or
soul-peace, but that she can form herself on the very lines and colours
of art, and can reproduce the dignity of Pheidias as well as the grace of
Praxiteles.  Hence came their objection to realism.  They disliked it on
purely social grounds.  They felt that it inevitably makes people ugly,
and they were perfectly right.  We try to improve the conditions of the
race by means of good air, free sunlight, wholesome water, and hideous
bare buildings for the better housing of the lower orders.  But these
things merely produce health, they do not produce beauty.  For this, Art
is required, and the true disciples of the great artist are not his
studio-imitators, but those who become like his works of art, be they
plastic as in Greek days, or pictorial as in modern times; in a word,
Life is Arts best, Arts only pupil.
