However, as I pointed out before, he never feels quite at his ease in his
criticisms of contemporary work.  The present, he says, is about as
agreeable a confusion to me as Ariosto on the first perusal. . . . Modern
things dazzle me.  I must look at them through Times telescope.  Elia
complains that to him the merit of a MS. poem is uncertain; print, as
he excellently says, settles it.  Fifty years toning does the same
thing to a picture.  He is happier when he is writing about Watteau and
Lancret, about Rubens and Giorgione, about Rembrandt, Corregio, and
Michael Angelo; happiest of all when he is writing about Greek things.
What is Gothic touched him very little, but classical art and the art of
the Renaissance were always dear to him.  He saw what our English school
could gain from a study of Greek models, and never wearies of pointing
out to the young student the artistic possibilities that lie dormant in
Hellenic marbles and Hellenic methods of work.  In his judgments on the
great Italian Masters, says De Quincey, there seemed a tone of sincerity
and of native sensibility, as in one who spoke for himself, and was not
merely a copier from books.  The highest praise that we can give to him
is that he tried to revive style as a conscious tradition.  But he saw
that no amount of art lectures or art congresses, or plans for advancing
the fine arts, will ever produce this result.  The people, he says very
wisely, and in the true spirit of Toynbee Hall, must always have the
best models constantly before their eyes.
As is to be expected from one who was a painter, he is often extremely
technical in his art criticisms.  Of Tintorets St. George delivering
the Egyptian Princess from the Dragon, he remarks:
    The robe of Sabra, warmly glazed with Prussian blue, is relieved from
    the pale greenish background by a vermilion scarf; and the full hues
    of both are beautifully echoed, as it were, in a lower key by the
    purple-lake coloured stuffs and bluish iron armour of the saint,
    besides an ample balance to the vivid azure drapery on the foreground
    in the indigo shades of the wild wood surrounding the castle.
And elsewhere he talks learnedly of a delicate Schiavone, various as a
tulip-bed, with rich broken tints, of a glowing portrait, remarkable
for _morbidezza_, by the scarce Moroni, and of another picture being
pulpy in the carnations.
But, as a rule, he deals with his impressions of the work as an artistic
whole, and tries to translate those impressions into words, to give, as
it were, the literary equivalent for the imaginative and mental effect.
He was one of the first to develop what has been called the
art-literature of the nineteenth century, that form of literature which
has found in Mr. Ruskin and Mr. Browning, its two most perfect exponents.
His description of Lancrets _Repas Italien_, in which a dark-haired
girl, amorous of mischief, lies on the daisy-powdered grass, is in
some respects very charming.  Here is his account of The Crucifixion,
by Rembrandt.  It is extremely characteristic of his style
