What we have to do, what at any rate it is our duty to do, is to revive
this old art of Lying.  Much of course may be done, in the way of
educating the public, by amateurs in the domestic circle, at literary
lunches, and at afternoon teas.  But this is merely the light and
graceful side of lying, such as was probably heard at Cretan
dinner-parties.  There are many other forms.  Lying for the sake of
gaining some immediate personal advantage, for instancelying with a
moral purpose, as it is usually calledthough of late it has been rather
looked down upon, was extremely popular with the antique world.  Athena
laughs when Odysseus tells her his words of sly devising, as Mr.
William Morris phrases it, and the glory of mendacity illumines the pale
brow of the stainless hero of Euripidean tragedy, and sets among the
noble women of the past the young bride of one of Horaces most exquisite
odes.  Later on, what at first had been merely a natural instinct was
elevated into a self-conscious science.  Elaborate rules were laid down
for the guidance of mankind, and an important school of literature grew
up round the subject.  Indeed, when one remembers the excellent
philosophical treatise of Sanchez on the whole question, one cannot help
regretting that no one has ever thought of publishing a cheap and
condensed edition of the works of that great casuist.  A short primer,
When to Lie and How, if brought out in an attractive and not too
expensive a form, would no doubt command a large sale, and would prove of
real practical service to many earnest and deep-thinking people.  Lying
for the sake of the improvement of the young, which is the basis of home
education, still lingers amongst us, and its advantages are so admirably
set forth in the early books of Platos _Republic_ that it is unnecessary
to dwell upon them here.  It is a mode of lying for which all good
mothers have peculiar capabilities, but it is capable of still further
development, and has been sadly overlooked by the School Board.  Lying
for the sake of a monthly salary is of course well known in Fleet Street,
and the profession of a political leader-writer is not without its
advantages.  But it is said to be a somewhat dull occupation, and it
certainly does not lead to much beyond a kind of ostentatious obscurity.
The only form of lying that is absolutely beyond reproach is lying for
its own sake, and the highest development of this is, as we have already
pointed out, Lying in Art.  Just as those who do not love Plato more than
Truth cannot pass beyond the threshold of the Academe, so those who do
not love Beauty more than Truth never know the inmost shrine of Art.  The
solid stolid British intellect lies in the desert sands like the Sphinx
in Flauberts marvellous tale, and fantasy, _La Chimere_, dances round
it, and calls to it with her false, flute-toned voice.  It may not hear
her now, but surely some day, when we are all bored to death with the
commonplace character of modern fiction, it will hearken to her and try
to borrow her wings.
