The third doctrine is that Life imitates Art far more than Art imitates
Life.  This results not merely from Lifes imitative instinct, but from
the fact that the self-conscious aim of Life is to find expression, and
that Art offers it certain beautiful forms through which it may realise
that energy.  It is a theory that has never been put forward before, but
it is extremely fruitful, and throws an entirely new light upon the
history of Art.
It follows, as a corollary from this, that external Nature also imitates
Art.  The only effects that she can show us are effects that we have
already seen through poetry, or in paintings.  This is the secret of
Natures charm, as well as the explanation of Natures weakness.
The final revelation is that Lying, the telling of beautiful untrue
things, is the proper aim of Art.  But of this I think I have spoken at
sufficient length.  And now let us go out on the terrace, where droops
the milk-white peacock like a ghost, while the evening star washes the
dusk with silver.  At twilight nature becomes a wonderfully suggestive
effect, and is not without loveliness, though perhaps its chief use is to
illustrate quotations from the poets.  Come!  We have talked long enough.
PEN, PENCIL AND POISON
A STUDY IN GREEN
IT has constantly been made a subject of reproach against artists and men
of letters that they are lacking in wholeness and completeness of nature.
As a rule this must necessarily be so.  That very concentration of vision
and intensity of purpose which is the characteristic of the artistic
temperament is in itself a mode of limitation.  To those who are
preoccupied with the beauty of form nothing else seems of much
importance.  Yet there are many exceptions to this rule.  Rubens served
as ambassador, and Goethe as state councillor, and Milton as Latin
secretary to Cromwell.  Sophocles held civic office in his own city; the
humourists, essayists, and novelists of modern America seem to desire
nothing better than to become the diplomatic representatives of their
country; and Charles Lambs friend, Thomas Griffiths Wainewright, the
subject of this brief memoir, though of an extremely artistic
temperament, followed many masters other than art, being not merely a
poet and a painter, an art-critic, an antiquarian, and a writer of prose,
an amateur of beautiful things, and a dilettante of things delightful,
but also a forger of no mean or ordinary capabilities, and as a subtle
and secret poisoner almost without rival in this or any age.
This remarkable man, so powerful with pen, pencil and poison, as a
great poet of our own day has finely said of him, was born at Chiswick,
in 1794.  His father was the son of a distinguished solicitor of Grays
Inn and Hatton Garden.  His mother was the daughter of the celebrated Dr.
Griffiths, the editor and founder of the _Monthly Review_, the partner in
another literary speculation of Thomas Davis, that famous bookseller of
whom Johnson said that he was not a bookseller, but a gentleman who
dealt in books, the friend of Goldsmith and Wedgwood, and one of the
most well-known men of his day.  Mrs. Wainewright died, in giving him
birth, at the early age of twenty-one, and an obituary notice in the
_Gentlemans Magazine_ tells us of her amiable disposition and numerous
accomplishments, and adds somewhat quaintly that she is supposed to
have understood the writings of Mr. Locke as well as perhaps any person
of either sex now living.  His father did not long survive his young
wife, and the little child seems to have been brought up by his
grandfather, and, on the death of the latter in 1803, by his uncle George
Edward Griffiths, whom he subsequently poisoned.  His boyhood was passed
at Linden House, Turnham Green, one of those many fine Georgian mansions
that have unfortunately disappeared before the inroads of the suburban
builder, and to its lovely gardens and well-timbered park he owed that
simple and impassioned love of nature which never left him all through
his life, and which made him so peculiarly susceptible to the spiritual
influences of Wordsworths poetry.  He went to school at Charles Burneys
academy at Hammersmith.  Mr. Burney was the son of the historian of
music, and the near kinsman of the artistic lad who was destined to turn
out his most remarkable pupil.  He seems to have been a man of a good
deal of culture, and in after years Mr. Wainewright often spoke of him
with much affection as a philosopher, an archaologist, and an admirable
teacher who, while he valued the intellectual side of education, did not
forget the importance of early moral training.  It was under Mr. Burney
that he first developed his talent as an artist, and Mr. Hazlitt tells us
that a drawing-book which he used at school is still extant, and displays
great talent and natural feeling.  Indeed, painting was the first art
that fascinated him.  It was not till much later that he sought to find
expression by pen or poison.
