His life-work falls naturally under the three heads suggested by Mr.
Swinburne, and it may be partly admitted that, if we set aside his
achievements in the sphere of poison, what he has actually left to us
hardly justifies his reputation.
But then it is only the Philistine who seeks to estimate a personality by
the vulgar test of production.  This young dandy sought to be somebody,
rather than to do something.  He recognised that Life itself is in art,
and has its modes of style no less than the arts that seek to express it.
Nor is his work without interest.  We hear of William Blake stopping in
the Royal Academy before one of his pictures and pronouncing it to be
very fine.  His essays are prefiguring of much that has since been
realised.  He seems to have anticipated some of those accidents of modern
culture that are regarded by many as true essentials.  He writes about La
Gioconda, and early French poets and the Italian Renaissance.  He loves
Greek gems, and Persian carpets, and Elizabethan translations of _Cupid
and Psyche_, and the _Hypnerotomachia_, and book-binding and early
editions, and wide-margined proofs.  He is keenly sensitive to the value
of beautiful surroundings, and never wearies of describing to us the
rooms in which he lived, or would have liked to live.  He had that
curious love of green, which in individuals is always the sign of a
subtle artistic temperament, and in nations is said to denote a laxity,
if not a decadence of morals.  Like Baudelaire he was extremely fond of
cats, and with Gautier, he was fascinated by that sweet marble monster
of both sexes that we can still see at Florence and in the Louvre.
There is of course much in his descriptions, and his suggestions for
decoration, that shows that he did not entirely free himself from the
false taste of his time.  But it is clear that he was one of the first to
recognise what is, indeed, the very keynote of asthetic eclecticism, I
mean the true harmony of all really beautiful things irrespective of age
or place, of school or manner.  He saw that in decorating a room, which
is to be, not a room for show, but a room to live in, we should never aim
at any archaological reconstruction of the past, nor burden ourselves
with any fanciful necessity for historical accuracy.  In this artistic
perception he was perfectly right.  All beautiful things belong to the
same age.
And so, in his own library, as he describes it, we find the delicate
fictile vase of the Greek, with its exquisitely painted figures and the
faint <U+039A><U+0391><U+039B><U+039F><U+03A3> finely traced upon its side, and behind it hangs an engraving
of the Delphic Sibyl of Michael Angelo, or of the Pastoral of
Giorgione.  Here is a bit of Florentine majolica, and here a rude lamp
from some old Roman tomb. On the table lies a book of Hours, cased in a
cover of solid silver gilt, wrought with quaint devices and studded with
small brilliants and rubies, and close by it squats a little ugly
monster, a Lar, perhaps, dug up in the sunny fields of corn-bearing
Sicily.  Some dark antique bronzes contrast with the pale gleam of two
noble _Christi Crucifixi_, one carved in ivory, the other moulded in
wax.  He has his trays of Tassies gems, his tiny Louis-Quatorze
_bonbonniere_ with a miniature by Petitot, his highly prized
brown-biscuit teapots, filagree-worked, his citron morocco letter-case,
and his pomona-green chair.
