What a monstrous climate! said the American Minister calmly, as he lit
a long cheroot.  I guess the old country is so overpopulated that they
have not enough decent weather for everybody.  I have always been of
opinion that emigration is the only thing for England.
My dear Hiram, cried Mrs. Otis, what can we do with a woman who
faints?
Charge it to her like breakages, answered the Minister; she wont
faint after that; and in a few moments Mrs. Umney certainly came to.
There was no doubt, however, that she was extremely upset, and she
sternly warned Mr. Otis to beware of some trouble coming to the house.
I have seen things with my own eyes, sir, she said, that would make
any Christians hair stand on end, and many and many a night I have not
closed my eyes in sleep for the awful things that are done here.  Mr.
Otis, however, and his wife warmly assured the honest soul that they were
not afraid of ghosts, and, after invoking the blessings of Providence on
her new master and mistress, and making arrangements for an increase of
salary, the old housekeeper tottered off to her own room.
CHAPTER II
THE storm raged fiercely all that night, but nothing of particular note
occurred.  The next morning, however, when they came down to breakfast,
they found the terrible stain of blood once again on the floor.  I dont
think it can be the fault of the Paragon Detergent, said Washington,
for I have tried it with everything.  It must be the ghost.  He
accordingly rubbed out the stain a second time, but the second morning it
appeared again.  The third morning also it was there, though the library
had been locked up at night by Mr. Otis himself, and the key carried
upstairs.  The whole family were now quite interested; Mr. Otis began to
suspect that he had been too dogmatic in his denial of the existence of
ghosts, Mrs. Otis expressed her intention of joining the Psychical
Society, and Washington prepared a long letter to Messrs. Myers and
Podmore on the subject of the Permanence of Sanguineous Stains when
connected with Crime.  That night all doubts about the objective
existence of phantasmata were removed for ever.
The day had been warm and sunny; and, in the cool of the evening, the
whole family went out for a drive.  They did not return home till nine
oclock, when they had a light supper.  The conversation in no way turned
upon ghosts, so there were not even those primary conditions of receptive
expectation which so often precede the presentation of psychical
phenomena.  The subjects discussed, as I have since learned from Mr.
Otis, were merely such as form the ordinary conversation of cultured
Americans of the better class, such as the immense superiority of Miss
Fanny Davenport over Sarah Bernhardt as an actress; the difficulty of
obtaining green corn, buckwheat cakes, and hominy, even in the best
English houses; the importance of Boston in the development of the
world-soul; the advantages of the baggage check system in railway
travelling; and the sweetness of the New York accent as compared to the
London drawl.  No mention at all was made of the supernatural, nor was
Sir Simon de Canterville alluded to in any way.  At eleven oclock the
family retired, and by half-past all the lights were out.  Some time
after, Mr. Otis was awakened by a curious noise in the corridor, outside
his room.  It sounded like the clank of metal, and seemed to be coming
nearer every moment.  He got up at once, struck a match, and looked at
the time.  It was exactly one oclock.  He was quite calm, and felt his
pulse, which was not at all feverish.  The strange noise still continued,
and with it he heard distinctly the sound of footsteps.  He put on his
slippers, took a small oblong phial out of his dressing-case, and opened
the door.  Right in front of him he saw, in the wan moonlight, an old man
of terrible aspect.  His eyes were as red burning coals; long grey hair
fell over his shoulders in matted coils; his garments, which were of
antique cut, were soiled and ragged, and from his wrists and ankles hung
heavy manacles and rusty gyves.
