When I had done this, I recommended it to them to expostulate with the
men, and if possible, to keep them in temper, and keep them to their
duty; but at the same time, to stand all ready, and upon a signal which
I gave them, to come all to the steerage, and defend the great cabin
door with all the other hands, whom they could be sure of; and in the
mean time to be very watchful over the motions of the men, and see what
they drove at.
At the same time I fortified myself with the French captain, and the
supercargo, and the other captain; and by the way, all the French
captain's men were true to him, and he true to us, to a man. We then
brought a sufficient store of ammunition and small arms into the great
cabin, and secured the steerage, as also the roundhouse, so that we
could not possibly be surprised.
There was nothing done that night, but the next morning I was informed,
that the gunner and second mate were in a close cabal together, and one
or two of the midshipmen, and that they had sworn to one another, not
that they would not go the voyage as was proposed, for that might have
ended in their running away, which I should not have been sorry for;
but, in short, their oath was, that the ship should not go the voyage;
by which I was presently to understand, that they had some measures to
take to prevent my design of the voyage to the Philippines, and that,
perhaps, this was to run away with the ship to Madagascar, which was not
far off.
I had, however, this apparent encouragement, that as the contrivance was
yet but two days' old, for it was but two days since they had any notice
of our intentions to go, they would be some days caballing and forming
an interest among the men, to make up a party strong enough to make any
attempt; and that, as I had a trusty set of men, who would be as
diligent the other way, they would be contriving every method to get the
men over to their opinion, so that at least it would be some time before
they could make their party up.
The affair was rightly conjectured, and the three men who had made
themselves the head of the mutineers, went on apace, and my men
increased too, as much as could be desired for the time; but the Friday
after, which was about five days from the first discovery, one of the
midshipmen came, and desired to speak with me, and begged it might not,
if possible, be known that he was with me. I asked him if he desired to
be alone; he said no, I might appoint whom I thought convenient that I
could trust, but that what he had to say was of the last importance to
all our lives, and that therefore, he hoped I would be very sure of
those in whom I confided.
