Some time after, Sir _Thomas Levingston_, afterwards Earl of _Tiviot_,
having receiv'd Intelligence that the _Highlanders_ intended to fall
down into the lower Countries, in a considerable Body, got together a
Party of about five Hundred (the Dragoons, call'd the _Scotch Greys_,
inclusive) with which he resolv'd, if possible, to give them a Meeting.
We left _Inverness_ the last Day of _April_, and encamp'd near a little
Town call'd _Forrest_, the Place where, as Tradition still confidently
avers, the Witches met _Mackbeth_, and greeted him with their diabolical
Auspices. But this Story is so naturally display'd in a Play of the
immortal _Shakespear_, that I need not descend here to any farther
Particulars.
Here Sir _Thomas_ receiv'd Intelligence, that the _Highlanders_ design'd
to encamp upon the _Spey_, near the Laird of _Grant's_ Castle. Whereupon
we began our March about Noon; and the next Day, about the Break
thereof, we came to that River, where we soon discover'd the
_Highlanders_ by their Fires. Sir _Thomas_ immediately, on Sight of it,
issued his Orders for our fording the River, and falling upon them as
soon after as possible. Both were accordingly perform'd, and with so
good Order, Secrecy and Success, that _Cannon_ and _Balfour_, their
Commanders, were obliged to make their Escape naked.
They were about one Thousand in Number, of which were kill'd about three
Hundred; we pursued them, till they got up _Crowdale-Hill,_ where we
lost them in a Fog. And, indeed so high is that Hill, that they, who
perfectly knew it, assured me that it never is without a little dark Fog
hanging over it. And to me, at that Instant of Time, they seem'd rather
to be People receiv'd up into Clouds, than flying from an Enemy.
Near this there was an old Castle, call'd _Lethendy_, into which about
Fifty of them made their Retreat, most of them Gentlemen, resolving
there to defend themselves to the last. Sir _Thomas_ sent a Messenger to
them, with an Offer of Mercy, if they would surrender: But they refus'd
the profer'd Quarter, and fir'd upon our Men, killing two of our
Grenadiers, and wounding another. During my Quarters at the _Grave_,
having learnt to throw a Grenado, I took three or four in a Bag, and
crept down by the Side of a Ditch, or Dyke, to an old thatch'd House
near the Castle, imagining, on my mounting the same, I might be near
enough to throw them, so as to do execution. I found all Things answer
my Expectation; and the Castle wanting a Cover, I threw in a Grenado,
which put the Enemy immediately into Confusion. The Second had not so
good Success, falling short, and the Third burst as soon as it was well
out of my Hand, though without Damage to my self. But throwing the
Fourth in at a Window, it so increas'd the Confusion, which the first
had put them into, that they immediately call'd out to me, upon their
Parole of Safety, to come to them.
