But these Thoughts soon gave place to new Objects, which every Hour
presented themselves in our continu'd March to _Enghien_, a Place famous
for the finest Gardens in all _Flanders_, near which we encamp'd, on the
very same Ground which the _French_ chose some Years after at the Battle
of _Steenkirk_: of which I shall speak in its proper Place. Here the
Prince of _Orange_ left our Army, as we afterwards found, to pass into
_England_; where he marry'd the Princess _Mary_, Daughter of the Duke of
_York_. And after his Departure, that Campaign ended without any thing
further material.
Now began the Year 1678, famous for the Peace, and no less remarkable
for an Action previous to it, which has not fail'd to employ the Talents
of Men, variously, as they stood affected. Our Army, under the Prince of
_Orange_, lay encamp'd at _Soignies_, where it was whisper'd that the
Peace was concluded. Notwithstanding which, two Days after, being
_Sunday_ the 17th Day of _August_, the Army was drawn out, as most
others as well as my self apprehended, in order to _feux de Joye_; but
in lieu of that, we found our March order'd towards St. _Dennis_, where
the Duke of _Luxembourg_ lay, as he imagin'd, safe in inaccessible
Entrenchments.
About three of the Clock our Army arriv'd there, when we receiv'd Orders
to make the Attack. It began with a most vigorous Spirit, that promis'd
no less than the Success which ensu'd. The three _English_ and three
_Scotch_ Regiments, under the Command of the ever renown'd Earl of
_Ossory_, together with the Prince of _Orange_'s Guards, made their
Attack at a Place call'd the _Chateau_; where the _French_ took their
Refuge among a Parcel of Hop-Poles; but their Resource was as weak as
their Defence; and they were soon beaten out with a very great
Slaughter.
It was here that a _French_ Officer having his Pistol directed at the
Breast of the Prince, Monsieur _D'Auverquerque_ interpos'd, and shot the
Officer dead upon the Spot.
The Fight lasted from three in the Afternoon till Nine at Night; when
growing dark, the Duke of _Luxembourg_ forsook his Entrenchments, into
which we march'd next Morning. And to see the sudden Change of Things!
that very Spot of Ground, where nothing but Fire and Fury appear'd the
Day before, the yest saw solac'd with the Proclamation of a Peace.
About an Hour before the Attack began, the Duke of _Monmouth_ arriv'd in
the Army, being kindly receiv'd by the Prince of _Orange_, bravely
fighting by his Side, all that Day. The Woods and the Unevenness of the
Ground, render'd the Cavalry almost useless; yet I saw a Standard, among
some others, which was taken from the Enemy, being richly embroidered
with Gold and Silver, bearing the Sun in the Zodiack, with these haughty
Words, _Nihil obstabit eunte_. On the News of this unexpected Victory,
the States of _Holland_ sent to congratulate the Prince; and to testify
how much they valued his Preservation, they presented Monsieur
_D'Auverquerque,_ who had so bravely rescued him, with a Sword, whose
Handle was of massy Gold set with Diamonds. I forgot to mention that
this Gentleman receiv'd a Shot on his Head at the Battle of _Seneff_;
and truly in all Actions, which were many, he nobly distinguished
himself by his Bravery. He was Father of this present Earl of
_Grantham_.
