The _Phoenicians_, who were our first Navigators, the _Genoese_, and
after them the _Portuguese_, who arriv'd to extraordinary Proficiency in
Sea Affairs, were yet all of them, _as we say_, Fair-weather Sea-men:
The chief of their Navigation was Coasting; and if they were driven out
of their Knowledge, had work enough to find their way home, and
sometimes never found it at all; but one Sea convey'd them directly into
the last Ocean, from whence no Navigation cou'd return them.
When these, by Adventures, or Misadventures rather, had at any time
extended their Voyaging as far as this Island, which, by the way, they
always perform'd round the Coast of _Spain_, _Portugal_, and _France_;
if ever such a Vessel return'd, if ever the bold Navigator arriv'd at
home, he had done enough to talk on all his Days, and needed no other
Diversion among his Neighbours, than to give an Account of the vast
Seas, mighty Rocks, deep Gulfs, and prodigious Storms he met with in
these remote Parts of the known World: and this, magnified by the
Poetical Arts of the Learned Men of those times, grew into a receiv'd
Maxim of Navigation, That these Parts were so full of constant Tempests,
Storms, and dangerous Seas, that 'twas present Death to come near them,
and none but Madmen and Desperadoes could have any Business there, since
they were Places where Ships never came, and Navigation was not proper
in the Place.
    And _Thule_, where no Passage was
      For Ships their Sails to bear.
_Horace_ has reference to this horrid Part of the World, as a Place full
of terrible Monsters, and fit only for their Habitation, in the Words
before quoted.
         _Belluosus qui remotis
    Obstrepit Oceanus Britannis._
_Juvenal_ follows his Steps;
    _Quanto Delphino Balaena Britannica major._
      Juv.
Such horrid Apprehensions those Ages had of these Parts, which by our
Experience, and the Prodigy to which Navigation in particular, and
Sciential Knowledge in general, is since grown, appear very ridiculous.
For we find no Danger in our Shores, no uncertain wavering in our Tides,
no frightful Gulfs, no horrid Monsters, but what the bold Mariner has
made familiar to him. The Gulfs which frighted those early Sons of
_Neptune_ are search'd out by our Seamen, and made useful Bays, Roads,
and Harbours of Safety. The Promontories which running out into the Sea
gave them terrible Apprehensions of Danger, are our Safety, and make the
Sailors Hearts glad, as they are the first Lands they make when they are
coming Home from a long Voyage, or as they are a good shelter when in a
Storm our Ships get _under their Lee_.
Our Shores are sounded, the Sands and Flats are discovered, which they
knew little or nothing of, and in which more real Danger lies, than in
all the frightful Stories they told us; useful Sea-marks and
Land-figures are plac'd on the Shore, Buoys on the Water, Light-houses
on the highest Rocks; and all these dreadful Parts of the World are
become the Seat of Trade, and the Centre of Navigation: Art has
reconcil'd all the Difficulties, and Use made all the _Horribles_ and
_Terribles_ of those Ages become as natural and familiar as Day-light.
