Nothing of this Kind could have happen'd more to our mutual Satisfaction,
for tho' we had long ago given them over either for Lost, or Lost to us;
and we had no great Need of Company, yet we were overjoy'd at meeting, and
so were they too.
They were in some Distress for Provisions, and we had Plenty; so we brought
their Ship in for them, gave them a present Supply, and when we had help'd
them to moor and secure the Ship in the Harbour, we made them lock all
their Hatches and Cabins up, and come on Shore, and there we feasted them
five or six Days, for we had a Plenty of all Sorts of Provisions, not to be
exhausted; and if we had wanted an hundred Head of fat Bullocks, we could
have had them for asking for of the Natives, who treated us all along with
all possible Courtesy and Freedom in their Way.
The History of the Adventures and Success of these Men, from the Time we
left them to the Time of their Arrival at our new Plantation, was our whole
Entertainment for some Days. I cannot pretend to give the Particulars by my
Memory; but as they came to us _Thieves_, they improv'd in their Calling to
a great Degree, and, next to ourselves, had the greatest Success of any of
the Buccaneers whose Story has ever been made publick.
I shall not take upon me to vouch the whole Account of their Actions,
neither will this Letter contain a full History of their Adventures; but if
the Account which they gave us was true, you may take it thus:
First, that having met with good Success after they left us, and having
taken some extraordinary Purchase, as well in some Vessels they took at
Sea, as in the Plunder of some Towns on the Shore near _Guyaquil_, as I
have already told you, they got Information of a large Ship which was
loading the King's Money at _Puna_, and had Orders to sail with it to
_Lima_, in order to its being carry'd from thence to _Panama_ by the Fleet,
under the Convoy of the _Flotilla_, or Squadron of Men of War, which the
King's Governor at _Panama_ had sent to prevent their being insulted by the
Pirates, which they had Intelligence were on the Coast; by which, we
suppose, they meant us who were gone, for they could have no Notion of
these Men then.
Upon this Intelligence they cruis'd off and on upon the Coast for near a
Month, keeping always to the Southward of _Lima_, because they would not
fall in the Way of the said _Flotilla_, and so be overpower'd and miss of
their Prize: At last they met with what they look'd for, that is to say,
they met with the great Ship abovenam'd: But to their great Misfortune and
Disappointment, (as they first thought it to be) she had with her a Man of
War for her Convoy, and two other Merchant Ships in her Company.
