This being his temper, and the extent of his capacity, I confess I did
not see so much loss in his parting with me as at first I thought I did;
though it was hard and cruel to the last degree in him, not giving me
the least notice of his design; and indeed, that which I was most
astonished at was, that seeing he must certainly have intended this
excursion some few moments at least before he put it in practice, yet he
did not come and take what little stock of money we had left, or at
least a share of it, to bear his expense for a little while; but he did
not; and I am morally certain he had not five guineas with him in the
world when he went away. All that I could come to the knowledge of about
him was, that he left his hunting-horn, which he called the French horn,
in the stable, and his hunting-saddle, went away in a handsome
furniture, as they call it, which he used sometimes to travel with,
having an embroidered housing, a case of pistols, and other things
belonging to them; and one of his servants had another saddle with
pistols, though plain, and the other a long gun; so that they did not go
out as sportsmen, but rather as travellers; what part of the world they
went to I never heard for many years.
As I have said, I sent to his relations, but they sent me short and
surly answers; nor did any one of them offer to come to see me, or to
see the children, or so much as to inquire after them, well perceiving
that I was in a condition that was likely to be soon troublesome to
them. But it was no time now to dally with them or with the world; I
left off sending to them, and went myself among them, laid my
circumstances open to them, told them my whole case, and the condition I
was reduced to, begged they would advise me what course to take, laid
myself as low as they could desire, and entreated them to consider that
I was not in a condition to help myself, and that without some
assistance we must all inevitably perish. I told them that if I had had
but one child, or two children, I would have done my endeavour to have
worked for them with my needle, and should only have come to them to beg
them to help me to some work, that I might get our bread by my labour;
but to think of one single woman, not bred to work, and at a loss where
to get employment, to get the bread of five children, that was not
possible--some of my children being young too, and none of them big
enough to help one another.
It was all one; I received not one farthing of assistance from anybody,
was hardly asked to sit down at the two sisters' houses, nor offered to
eat or drink at two more near relations'. The fifth, an ancient
gentlewoman, aunt-in-law to my husband, a widow, and the least able also
of any of the rest, did, indeed, ask me to sit down, gave me a dinner,
and refreshed me with a kinder treatment than any of the rest, but added
the melancholy part, viz., that she would have helped me, but that,
indeed, she was not able, which, however, I was satisfied was very true.
