Good! interrupted Mr. Bounderby.  This is good, Gradgrind!  A man so
fond of his daughter, that he runs away from her!  This is devilish good!
Ha! ha!  Now, Ill tell you what, young man.  I havent always occupied
my present station of life.  I know what these things are.  You may be
astonished to hear it, but my motherran away from _me_.
E. W. B. Childers replied pointedly, that he was not at all astonished to
hear it.
Very well, said Bounderby.  I was born in a ditch, and my mother ran
away from me.  Do I excuse her for it?  No.  Have I ever excused her for
it?  Not I.  What do I call her for it?  I call her probably the very
worst woman that ever lived in the world, except my drunken grandmother.
Theres no family pride about me, theres no imaginative sentimental
humbug about me.  I call a spade a spade; and I call the mother of Josiah
Bounderby of Coketown, without any fear or any favour, what I should call
her if she had been the mother of Dick Jones of Wapping.  So, with this
man.  He is a runaway rogue and a vagabond, thats what he is, in
English.
Its all the same to me what he is or what he is not, whether in English
or whether in French, retorted Mr. E. W. B. Childers, facing about.  I
am telling your friend whats the fact; if you dont like to hear it, you
can avail yourself of the open air.  You give it mouth enough, you do;
but give it mouth in your own building at least, remonstrated E. W. B.
with stern irony.  Dont give it mouth in this building, till youre
called upon.  You have got some building of your own I dare say, now?
Perhaps so, replied Mr. Bounderby, rattling his money and laughing.
Then give it mouth in your own building, will you, if you please? said
Childers.  Because this isnt a strong building, and too much of you
might bring it down!
Eyeing Mr. Bounderby from head to foot again, he turned from him, as from
a man finally disposed of, to Mr. Gradgrind.
Jupe sent his daughter out on an errand not an hour ago, and then was
seen to slip out himself, with his hat over his eyes, and a bundle tied
up in a handkerchief under his arm.  She will never believe it of him,
but he has cut away and left her.
Pray, said Mr. Gradgrind, why will she never believe it of him?
Because those two were one.  Because they were never asunder.  Because,
up to this time, he seemed to dote upon her, said Childers, taking a
step or two to look into the empty trunk.  Both Mr. Childers and Master
Kidderminster walked in a curious manner; with their legs wider apart
than the general run of men, and with a very knowing assumption of being
stiff in the knees.  This walk was common to all the male members of
Slearys company, and was understood to express, that they were always on
horseback.
