Still Hugh went on, and loved her more and more.  He thought of her all
day, and dreamed of her all night long.  He treasured up her every word
and gesture, and had a palpitation of the heart whenever he heard her
footstep on the stairs or her voice in an adjoining room.  To him, the
old Bowyers house was haunted by an angel; there was enchantment in the
air and space in which she moved.  It would have been no miracle to Hugh
if flowers had sprung from the rush-strewn floors beneath the tread of
lovely Mistress Alice.
Never did prentice long to distinguish himself in the eyes of his
lady-love so ardently as Hugh.  Sometimes he pictured to himself the
house taking fire by night, and he, when all drew back in fear, rushing
through flame and smoke, and bearing her from the ruins in his arms.  At
other times he thought of a rising of fierce rebels, an attack upon the
city, a strong assault upon the Bowyers house in particular, and he
falling on the threshold pierced with numberless wounds in defence of
Mistress Alice.  If he could only enact some prodigy of valour, do some
wonderful deed, and let her know that she had inspired it, he thought he
could die contented.
Sometimes the Bowyer and his daughter would go out to supper with a
worthy citizen at the fashionable hour of six oclock, and on such
occasions Hugh, wearing his blue prentice cloak as gallantly as
prentice might, would attend with a lantern and his trusty club to
escort them home.  These were the brightest moments of his life.  To hold
the light while Mistress Alice picked her steps, to touch her hand as he
helped her over broken ways, to have her leaning on his arm,it sometimes
even came to that,this was happiness indeed!
When the nights were fair, Hugh followed in the rear, his eyes riveted on
the graceful figure of the Bowyers daughter as she and the old man moved
on before him.  So they threaded the narrow winding streets of the city,
now passing beneath the overhanging gables of old wooden houses whence
creaking signs projected into the street, and now emerging from some dark
and frowning gateway into the clear moonlight.  At such times, or when
the shouts of straggling brawlers met her ear, the Bowyers daughter
would look timidly back at Hugh, beseeching him to draw nearer; and then
how he grasped his club and longed to do battle with a dozen rufflers,
for the love of Mistress Alice!
The old Bowyer was in the habit of lending money on interest to the
gallants of the Court, and thus it happened that many a richly-dressed
gentleman dismounted at his door.  More waving plumes and gallant steeds,
indeed, were seen at the Bowyers house, and more embroidered silks and
velvets sparkled in his dark shop and darker private closet, than at any
merchants in the city.  In those times no less than in the present it
would seem that the richest-looking cavaliers often wanted money the
most.
