Before I quit this Palace of the Popes, let me translate from the little
history I mentioned just now, a short anecdote, quite appropriate to
itself, connected with its adventures.
An ancient tradition relates, that in 1441, a nephew of Pierre de Lude,
the Popes legate, seriously insulted some distinguished ladies of
Avignon, whose relations, in revenge, seized the young man, and horribly
mutilated him.  For several years the legate kept _his_ revenge within
his own breast, but he was not the less resolved upon its gratification
at last.  He even made, in the fulness of time, advances towards a
complete reconciliation; and when their apparent sincerity had prevailed,
he invited to a splendid banquet, in this palace, certain families, whole
families, whom he sought to exterminate.  The utmost gaiety animated the
repast; but the measures of the legate were well taken.  When the dessert
was on the board, a Swiss presented himself, with the announcement that a
strange ambassador solicited an extraordinary audience.  The legate,
excusing himself, for the moment, to his guests, retired, followed by his
officers.  Within a few minutes afterwards, five hundred persons were
reduced to ashes: the whole of that wing of the building having been
blown into the air with a terrible explosion!
After seeing the churches (I will not trouble you with churches just
now), we left Avignon that afternoon.  The heat being very great, the
roads outside the walls were strewn with people fast asleep in every
little slip of shade, and with lazy groups, half asleep and half awake,
who were waiting until the sun should be low enough to admit of their
playing bowls among the burnt-up trees, and on the dusty road.  The
harvest here was already gathered in, and mules and horses were treading
out the corn in the fields.  We came, at dusk, upon a wild and hilly
country, once famous for brigands; and travelled slowly up a steep
ascent.  So we went on, until eleven at night, when we halted at the town
of Aix (within two stages of Marseilles) to sleep.
The hotel, with all the blinds and shutters closed to keep the light and
heat out, was comfortable and airy next morning, and the town was very
clean; but so hot, and so intensely light, that when I walked out at noon
it was like coming suddenly from the darkened room into crisp blue fire.
The air was so very clear, that distant hills and rocky points appeared
within an hours walk; while the town immediately at handwith a kind of
blue wind between me and itseemed to be white hot, and to be throwing
off a fiery air from the surface.
We left this town towards evening, and took the road to Marseilles.  A
dusty road it was; the houses shut up close; and the vines powdered
white.  At nearly all the cottage doors, women were peeling and slicing
onions into earthen bowls for supper.  So they had been doing last night
all the way from Avignon.  We passed one or two shady dark châteaux,
surrounded by trees, and embellished with cool basins of water: which
were the more refreshing to behold, from the great scarcity of such
residences on the road we had travelled.  As we approached Marseilles,
the road began to be covered with holiday people.  Outside the
public-houses were parties smoking, drinking, playing draughts and cards,
and (once) dancing.  But dust, dust, dust, everywhere.  We went on,
through a long, straggling, dirty suburb, thronged with people; having on
our left a dreary slope of land, on which the country-houses of the
Marseilles merchants, always staring white, are jumbled and heaped
without the slightest order: backs, fronts, sides, and gables towards all
points of the compass; until, at last, we entered the town.
