So Old Cheeseman went on.  The holidays brought him into other trouble
besides the loneliness; because when the fellows began to come back, not
wanting to, he was always glad to see them; which was aggravating when
they were not at all glad to see him, and so he got his head knocked
against walls, and that was the way his nose bled.  But he was a
favourite in general.  Once a subscription was raised for him; and, to
keep up his spirits, he was presented before the holidays with two white
mice, a rabbit, a pigeon, and a beautiful puppy.  Old Cheeseman cried
about itespecially soon afterwards, when they all ate one another.
Of course Old Cheeseman used to be called by the names of all sorts of
cheesesDouble Glosterman, Family Cheshireman, Dutchman, North
Wiltshireman, and all that.  But he never minded it.  And I dont mean to
say he was old in point of yearsbecause he wasntonly he was called
from the first, Old Cheeseman.
At last, Old Cheeseman was made second Latin Master.  He was brought in
one morning at the beginning of a new half, and presented to the school
in that capacity as Mr. Cheeseman.  Then our fellows all agreed that
Old Cheeseman was a spy, and a deserter, who had gone over to the enemys
camp, and sold himself for gold.  It was no excuse for him that he had
sold himself for very little goldtwo pound ten a quarter and his
washing, as was reported.  It was decided by a Parliament which sat about
it, that Old Cheesemans mercenary motives could alone be taken into
account, and that he had coined our blood for drachmas.  The Parliament
took the expression out of the quarrel scene between Brutus and Cassius.
When it was settled in this strong way that Old Cheeseman was a
tremendous traitor, who had wormed himself into our fellows secrets on
purpose to get himself into favour by giving up everything he knew, all
courageous fellows were invited to come forward and enrol themselves in a
Society for making a set against him.  The President of the Society was
First boy, named Bob Tarter.  His father was in the West Indies, and he
owned, himself, that his father was worth Millions.  He had great power
among our fellows, and he wrote a parody, beginning
    Who made believe to be so meek
    That we could hardly hear him speak,
    Yet turned out an Informing Sneak?
                         Old Cheeseman.
and on in that way through more than a dozen verses, which he used to go
and sing, every morning, close by the new masters desk.  He trained one
of the low boys, too, a rosy-cheeked little Brass who didnt care what he
did, to go up to him with his Latin Grammar one morning, and say it so:
_Nominativus pronominum_Old Cheeseman, _raro exprimitur_was never
suspected, _nisi distinctionis_of being an informer, _aut emphasis
gratîa_until he proved one.  _Ut_for instance, _Vos damnastis_when he
sold the boys.  _Quasi_as though, _dicat_he should say, _Pretarea
nemo_Im a Judas!  All this produced a great effect on Old Cheeseman.
He had never had much hair; but what he had, began to get thinner and
thinner every day.  He grew paler and more worn; and sometimes of an
evening he was seen sitting at his desk with a precious long snuff to his
candle, and his hands before his face, crying.  But no member of the
Society could pity him, even if he felt inclined, because the President
said it was Old Cheesemans conscience.
