Gentlemen, talking of my friends in America, brings me back, naturally
and of course, to you.  Coming back to you, and being thereby reminded of
the pleasure we have in store in hearing the gentlemen who sit about me,
I arrive by the easiest, though not by the shortest course in the world,
at the end of what I have to say.  But before I sit down, there is one
topic on which I am desirous to lay particular stress.  It has, or should
have, a strong interest for us all, since to its literature every country
must look for one great means of refining and improving its people, and
one great source of national pride and honour.  You have in America great
writersgreat writerswho will live in all time, and are as familiar to
our lips as household words.  Deriving (as they all do in a greater or
less degree, in their several walks) their inspiration from the
stupendous country that gave them birth, they diffuse a better knowledge
of it, and a higher love for it, all over the civilized world.  I take
leave to say, in the presence of some of those gentleman, that I hope the
time is not far distant when they, in America, will receive of right some
substantial profit and return in England from their labours; and when we,
in England, shall receive some substantial profit and return in America
for ours.  Pray do not misunderstand me.  Securing to myself from day to
day the means of an honourable subsistence, I would rather have the
affectionate regard of my fellow men, than I would have heaps and mines
of gold.  But the two things do not seem to me incompatible.  They cannot
be, for nothing good is incompatible with justice; there must be an
international arrangement in this respect: England has done her part, and
I am confident that the time is not far distant when America will do
hers.  It becomes the character of a great country; _firstly_, because it
is justice; _secondly_, because without it you never can have, and keep,
a literature of your own.
Gentlemen, I thank you with feelings of gratitude, such as are not often
awakened, and can never be expressed.  As I understand it to be the
pleasant custom here to finish with a toast, I would beg to give you:
AMERICA AND ENGLAND, and may they never have any division but the
Atlantic between them.
IV.
FEBRUARY 7, 1842.
GENTLEMEN,To say that I thank you for the earnest manner in which you
have drunk the toast just now so eloquently proposed to youto say that I
give you back your kind wishes and good feelings with more than compound
interest; and that I feel how dumb and powerless the best acknowledgments
would be beside such genial hospitality as yours, is nothing.  To say
that in this winter season, flowers have sprung up in every footsteps
length of the path which has brought me here; that no country ever smiled
more pleasantly than yours has smiled on me, and that I have rarely
looked upon a brighter summer prospect than that which lies before me
now, {63} is nothing.
