II.
JANUARY, 1842.
[In presenting Captain Hewett, of the _Britannia_, {55} with a service of
plate on behalf of the passengers, Mr. Dickens addressed him as follows:]
CAPTAIN HEWETT,I am very proud and happy to have been selected as the
instrument of conveying to you the heartfelt thanks of my
fellow-passengers on board the ship entrusted to your charge, and of
entreating your acceptance of this trifling present.  The ingenious
artists who work in silver do not always, I find, keep their promises,
even in Boston.  I regret that, instead of two goblets, which there
should be here, there is, at present, only one.  The deficiency, however,
will soon be supplied; and, when it is, our little testimonial will be,
so far, complete.
You are a sailor, Captain Hewett, in the truest sense of the word; and
the devoted admiration of the ladies, God bless them, is a sailors first
boast.  I need not enlarge upon the honour they have done you, I am sure,
by their presence here.  Judging of you by myself, I am certain that the
recollection of their beautiful faces will cheer your lonely vigils upon
the ocean for a long time to come.
In all time to come, and in all your voyages upon the sea, I hope you
will have a thought for those who wish to live in your memory by the help
of these trifles.  As they will often connect you with the pleasure of
those homes and fire sides from which they once wandered, and which, but
for you, they might never have regained, so they trust that you will
sometimes associate them with your hours of festive enjoyment; and, that,
when you drink from these cups, you will feel that the draught is
commended to your lips by friends whose best wishes you have; and who
earnestly and truly hope for your success, happiness, and prosperity, in
all the undertakings of your life.
III.
FEBRUARY 1842.
[At dinner given to Mr. Dickens by the young men of Boston.  The company
consisted of about two hundred, among whom were George Bancroft,
Washington Allston, and Oliver Wendell Holmes.  The toast of Health,
happiness, and a hearty welcome to Charles Dickens, having been proposed
by the chairman, Mr. Quincy, and received with great applause, Mr.
Dickens responded with the following address:]
GENTLEMEN,If you had given this splendid entertainment to anyone else in
the whole wide worldif I were to-night to exult in the triumph of my
dearest friendif I stood here upon my defence, to repel any unjust
attackto appeal as a stranger to your generosity and kindness as the
freest people on the earthI could, putting some restraint upon myself,
stand among you as self-possessed and unmoved as I should be alone in my
own room in England.  But when I have the echoes of your cordial greeting
ringing in my ears; when I see your kind faces beaming a welcome so warm
and earnest as never man hadI feel, it is my nature, so vanquished and
subdued, that I have hardly fortitude enough to thank you.  If your
President, instead of pouring forth that delightful mixture of humour and
pathos which you have just heard, had been but a caustic, ill-natured
manif he had only been a dull oneif I could only have doubted or
distrusted him or you, I should have had my wits at my fingers ends,
and, using them, could have held you at arms-length.  But you have given
me no such opportunity; you take advantage of me in the tenderest point;
you give me no chance of playing at company, or holding you at a
distance, but flock about me like a host of brothers, and make this place
like home.  Indeed, gentlemen, indeed, if it be natural and allowable for
each of us, on his own hearth, to express his thoughts in the most homely
fashion, and to appear in his plainest garb, I have a fair claim upon you
to let me do so to-night, for you have made my home an Aladdins Palace.
You fold so tenderly within your breasts that common household lamp in
which my feeble fire is all enshrined, and at which my flickering torch
is lighted up, that straight my household gods take wing, and are
transported there.  And whereas it is written of that fairy structure
that it never moved without two shocksone when it rose, and one when it
settled downI can say of mine that, however sharp a tug it took to pluck
it from its native ground, it struck at once an easy, and a deep and
lasting root into this soil; and loved it as its own.  I can say more of
it, and say with truth, that long before it moved, or had a chance of
moving, its masterperhaps from some secret sympathy between its timbers,
and a certain stately tree that has its being hereabout, and spreads its
broad branches far and widedreamed by day and night, for years, of
setting foot upon this shore, and breathing this pure air.  And, trust
me, gentlemen, that, if I had wandered here, unknowing and unknown, I
wouldif I know my own hearthave come with all my sympathies clustering
as richly about this land and peoplewith all my sense of justice as
keenly alive to their high claims on every man who loves Gods imagewith
all my energies as fully bent on judging for myself, and speaking out,
and telling in my sphere the truth, as I do now, when you rain down your
welcomes on my head.
