Secondly, Mr. Dickens is accused of an irreverence for, and unseemly
ridicule of, sacred things.  Any attentive reader of Dickens will have
observed that he is not much in the habit of quoting from, or alluding to
the writings of others; but that when he does quote or allude, it is in
the great majority of cases from or to the Holy Scriptures. {34}
Occasionally we come upon a reference to Shakespeare; now and then we
meet with one from Swift, or Scott, or Byron; but these occur so seldom,
that it may be said, once for all, that the source from which Mr. Dickens
is usually in the habit of making quotations, is the Bible only.  It is
very interesting to find that so many of Mr. Dickenss characters are
represented as being in the habit either of regularly reading and
studying the Bible, or of having it read to them by some one else.
I aint much of a hand at reading writing-hand, said Betty Higden,
though I can read my Bible and most print.  Little Nell was in the
constant habit of taking the Bible with her to read while in her quiet
and lonely retreat in the old church, after all her long and weary
wanderings were past.  In the happy time which Oliver Twist spent with
Mrs. Maylie and Rose, he used to read, in the evenings, a chapter or two
from the Bible, which he had been studying all the week, and in the
performance of which duty he felt more proud and pleased than if he had
been the clergyman himself.  There was Sarah, in the Sketches by Boz,
who regularly read the Bible to her old mistress; and in the touching
sketch of Our Next-door Neighbour in the same book, we find the mother
of the sick boy engaged in reading the Bible to him when the visitor
called and interrupted her.  This incident reminds us of the poor
Chancery prisoner in the Fleet, who, when on his death-bed calmly waiting
the release which would set him free for ever, had the Bible read to him
by an old man in a cobblers apron.  One of David Copperfields earliest
recollections was of a certain Sunday evening, when his mother read aloud
to him and Peggotty the story of Our Saviour raising Lazarus from the
dead.  So deep an impression did the story make upon the boy, taken in
connexion with all that had been lately told him about his fathers
funeral, that he requested to be carried up to his bed-room, from the
windows of which he could see the quiet churchyard with the dead all
lying in their graves at rest below the solemn moon.  Pip, too, in Great
Expectations, was not only in the habit of reading the Bible to the
convict under sentence of death, but of praying with him as well; and
Esther Summerson tells us how she used to come downstairs every evening
at nine oclock to read the Bible to her god-mother.
