During six years did Mr. Dickens continue to issue at Christmas these
little volumes: A Christmas Carol (December, 1843); The Chimes
(December, 1844); The Cricket on the Hearth (December, 1845); The
Battle of Life (December, 1846); The Haunted Man and the Ghosts
Bargain (December, 1848). {31}
Christmas stories are now grown so much the fashion that, whenever the
season of holly and mistletoe comes round they greet us at every turn,
forcing themselves upon our notice through every species of whimsical and
enticing embellishment.  Why is it that, amidst such a satiety of
novelties we turn again and again, with an interest as keen as ever, to a
perusal of the pages where little Dot Peerybingle chirps as brightly as
the cricket on her own hearth, where Trotty Veck listens to the voices of
the chimes, striving to comprehend what it is they say to him, and where
old Scrooges heart is softened by his ghostly visitants?  It is because
Charles Dickens has made such a study of that human nature we all possess
in common that he is able to strike with a practised hand upon the chords
of our hearts, and draw forth harmony that vibrates from soul to soul.
It is not, however, our intention here, to follow Mr. Dickens through the
whole of his long and honourable literary career, far less to undertake
the superfluous task of extolling the numerous and brilliant list of
writings that have followed each other in rapid and welcome succession
from his indefatigable pen.  All that remains for us to do now, is to
notice briefly two very grave charges that have been made against the
general tendency of his writings, and to bring forward some evidence in
refutation of them.
These two charges are, 1, a wilful perversion of facts in describing the
political and social condition of our time; 2, an irreverence for and
ridicule of sacred things and persons, which (say the objectors) infuses
a subtle poison through the whole of his works, and unsettles the belief
of the young.  We shall take these charges one at a time.
In some of his later novels, such as Bleak House, and Little Dorrit,
in which he has endeavoured to grapple with the great social and
political problems of the age, certain critics have accused him of
exaggeration, and even of a wilful perversion of facts.  Against their
opinion we are pleased to be able to set that of so good an authority as
the author of Modern Painters:
    The essential value and truth of Dickenss writings, says Mr.
    Ruskin, have been unwisely lost sight of by many thoughtful persons,
    merely because he presents his truth with some colour of caricature.
    Unwisely, because Dickenss caricature, though often gross, is never
    mistaken.  Allowing for his manner of telling them, the things he
    tells us are always true.  I wish that he could think it right to
    limit his brilliant exaggeration to works written only for public
    amusement; and when he takes up a subject of high national
    importance, such as that which he handled in Hard Times, that he
    would use severer and more accurate analysis.  The usefulness of that
    work (to my mind, in several respects the greatest he has written,)
    is with many persons seriously diminished, because Mr. Bounderby is a
    dramatic monster, instead of a characteristic example of a worldly
    master; and Stephen Blackpool a dramatic perfection, instead of a
    characteristic example of an honest workman.  But let us not lose the
    use of Dickenss wit and insight because he chooses to speak in a
    circle of stage fire.  He is entirely right in his main drift and
    purpose in every book he has written; and all of them, but especially
    Hard Times, should be studied with close and earnest care by
    persons interested in social questions.  They will find much that is
    partial, and, because partial, apparently unjust; but if they examine
    all the evidence on the other side, which Dickens seems to overlook,
    it will appear, after all their trouble, that his view was the
    finally right one, grossly and sharply told. {33}
