The cheerful earnestness of this good Christian minister was as
consolatory, as the circumstances out of which it shone were sad.  I
never have seen anything more delightfully genuine than the calm
dismissal by himself and his household of all they had undergone, as a
simple duty that was quietly done and ended.  In speaking of it, they
spoke of it with great compassion for the bereaved; but laid no stress
upon their own hard share in those weary weeks, except as it had attached
many people to them as friends, and elicited many touching expressions of
gratitude.  This clergymans brotherhimself the clergyman of two
adjoining parishes, who had buried thirty-four of the bodies in his own
churchyard, and who had done to them all that his brother had done as to
the larger numbermust be understood as included in the family.  He was
there, with his neatly arranged papers, and made no more account of his
trouble than anybody else did.  Down to yesterdays post outward, my
clergyman alone had written one thousand and seventy-five letters to
relatives and friends of the lost people.  In the absence of
self-assertion, it was only through my now and then delicately putting a
question as the occasion arose, that I became informed of these things.
It was only when I had remarked again and again, in the church, on the
awful nature of the scene of death he had been required so closely to
familiarise himself with for the soothing of the living, that he had
casually said, without the least abatement of his cheerfulness, indeed,
it had rendered him unable for a time to eat or drink more than a little
coffee now and then, and a piece of bread.
In this noble modesty, in this beautiful simplicity, in this serene
avoidance of the least attempt to improve an occasion which might be
supposed to have sunk of its own weight into my heart, I seemed to have
happily come, in a few steps, from the churchyard with its open grave,
which was the type of Death, to the Christian dwelling side by side with
it, which was the type of Resurrection.  I never shall think of the
former, without the latter.  The two will always rest side by side in my
memory.  If I had lost any one dear to me in this unfortunate ship, if I
had made a voyage from Australia to look at the grave in the churchyard,
I should go away, thankful to GOD that that house was so close to it, and
that its shadow by day and its domestic lights by night fell upon the
earth in which its Master had so tenderly laid my dear ones head.
The references that naturally arose out of our conversation, to the
descriptions sent down of shipwrecked persons, and to the gratitude of
relations and friends, made me very anxious to see some of those letters.
I was presently seated before a shipwreck of papers, all bordered with
black, and from them I made the following few extracts.
