Meg looked towards their guest, who leaned upon her chair, and with his
face turned from her, fondled the childs head, half hidden in her lap.
To be sure, said Toby.  To be sure!  I dont know what Im rambling on
about, to-night.  My wits are wool-gathering, I think.  Will Fern, you
come along with me.  Youre tired to death, and broken down for want of
rest.  You come along with me.  The man still played with the childs
curls, still leaned upon Megs chair, still turned away his face.  He
didnt speak, but in his rough coarse fingers, clenching and expanding in
the fair hair of the child, there was an eloquence that said enough.
Yes, yes, said Trotty, answering unconsciously what he saw expressed in
his daughters face.  Take her with you, Meg.  Get her to bed.  There!
Now, Will, Ill show you where you lie.  Its not much of a place: only a
loft; but, having a loft, I always say, is one of the great conveniences
of living in a mews; and till this coach-house and stable gets a better
let, we live here cheap.  Theres plenty of sweet hay up there, belonging
to a neighbour; and its as clean as hands, and Meg, can make it.  Cheer
up!  Dont give way.  A new heart for a New Year, always!
The hand released from the childs hair, had fallen, trembling, into
Trottys hand.  So Trotty, talking without intermission, led him out as
tenderly and easily as if he had been a child himself.  Returning before
Meg, he listened for an instant at the door of her little chamber; an
adjoining room.  The child was murmuring a simple Prayer before lying
down to sleep; and when she had remembered Megs name, Dearly,
Dearlyso her words ranTrotty heard her stop and ask for his.
It was some short time before the foolish little old fellow could compose
himself to mend the fire, and draw his chair to the warm hearth.  But,
when he had done so, and had trimmed the light, he took his newspaper
from his pocket, and began to read.  Carelessly at first, and skimming up
and down the columns; but with an earnest and a sad attention, very soon.
For this same dreaded paper re-directed Trottys thoughts into the
channel they had taken all that day, and which the days events had so
marked out and shaped.  His interest in the two wanderers had set him on
another course of thinking, and a happier one, for the time; but being
alone again, and reading of the crimes and violences of the people, he
relapsed into his former train.
In this mood, he came to an account (and it was not the first he had ever
read) of a woman who had laid her desperate hands not only on her own
life but on that of her young child.  A crime so terrible, and so
revolting to his soul, dilated with the love of Meg, that he let the
journal drop, and fell back in his chair, appalled!
