Belinda, as I have mentioned, occupied the Picture Room.  We had but
three other chambers: the Corner Room, the Cupboard Room, and the Garden
Room.  My old friend, Jack Governor, slung his hammock, as he called
it, in the Corner Room.  I have always regarded Jack as the
finest-looking sailor that ever sailed.  He is gray now, but as handsome
as he was a quarter of a century agonay, handsomer.  A portly, cheery,
well-built figure of a broad-shouldered man, with a frank smile, a
brilliant dark eye, and a rich dark eyebrow.  I remember those under
darker hair, and they look all the better for their silver setting.  He
has been wherever his Union namesake flies, has Jack, and I have met old
shipmates of his, away in the Mediterranean and on the other side of the
Atlantic, who have beamed and brightened at the casual mention of his
name, and have cried, You know Jack Governor?  Then you know a prince of
men!  That he is!  And so unmistakably a naval officer, that if you were
to meet him coming out of an Esquimaux snow-hut in seals skin, you would
be vaguely persuaded he was in full naval uniform.
Jack once had that bright clear eye of his on my sister; but, it fell out
that he married another lady and took her to South America, where she
died.  This was a dozen years ago or more.  He brought down with him to
our haunted house a little cask of salt beef; for, he is always convinced
that all salt beef not of his own pickling, is mere carrion, and
invariably, when he goes to London, packs a piece in his portmanteau.  He
had also volunteered to bring with him one Nat Beaver, an old comrade
of his, captain of a merchantman.  Mr. Beaver, with a thick-set wooden
face and figure, and apparently as hard as a block all over, proved to be
an intelligent man, with a world of watery experiences in him, and great
practical knowledge.  At times, there was a curious nervousness about
him, apparently the lingering result of some old illness; but, it seldom
lasted many minutes.  He got the Cupboard Room, and lay there next to Mr.
Undery, my friend and solicitor: who came down, in an amateur capacity,
to go through with it, as he said, and who plays whist better than the
whole Law List, from the red cover at the beginning to the red cover at
the end.
I never was happier in my life, and I believe it was the universal
feeling among us.  Jack Governor, always a man of wonderful resources,
was Chief Cook, and made some of the best dishes I ever ate, including
unapproachable curries.  My sister was pastrycook and confectioner.
Starling and I were Cooks Mate, turn and turn about, and on special
occasions the chief cook pressed Mr. Beaver.  We had a great deal of
out-door sport and exercise, but nothing was neglected within, and there
was no ill-humour or misunderstanding among us, and our evenings were so
delightful that we had at least one good reason for being reluctant to go
to bed.
