I turned away, and went silently to do her bidding. Of course the thing
was folly, but I could not get out of it. I remember that, as I
approached the Baroness, I felt as excited as a schoolboy. I was in a
frenzy, as though I were drunk.
VI
Two days have passed since that day of lunacy. What a noise and a fuss
and a chattering and an uproar there was! And what a welter of
unseemliness and disorder and stupidity and bad manners! And I the
cause of it all! Yet part of the scene was also ridiculous--at all
events to myself it was so. I am not quite sure what was the matter
with me--whether I was merely stupefied or whether I purposely broke
loose and ran amok. At times my mind seems all confused; while at other
times I seem almost to be back in my childhood, at the school desk, and
to have done the deed simply out of mischief.
It all came of Polina--yes, of Polina. But for her, there might never
have been a fracas. Or perhaps I did the deed in a fit of despair
(though it may be foolish of me to think so)? What there is so
attractive about her I cannot think. Yet there IS something attractive
about her--something passing fair, it would seem. Others besides myself
she has driven to distraction. She is tall and straight, and very slim.
Her body looks as though it could be tied into a knot, or bent double,
like a cord. The imprint of her foot is long and narrow. It is, a
maddening imprint--yes, simply a maddening one! And her hair has a
reddish tint about it, and her eyes are like cat's eyes--though able
also to glance with proud, disdainful mien. On the evening of my first
arrival, four months ago, I remember that she was sitting and holding
an animated conversation with De Griers in the salon. And the way in
which she looked at him was such that later, when I retired to my own
room upstairs, I kept fancying that she had smitten him in the
face--that she had smitten him right on the cheek, so peculiar had been
her look as she stood confronting him. Ever since that evening I have
loved her.
But to my tale.
I stepped from the path into the carriage-way, and took my stand in the
middle of it. There I awaited the Baron and the Baroness. When they
were but a few paces distant from me I took off my hat, and bowed.
I remember that the Baroness was clad in a voluminous silk dress, pale
grey in colour, and adorned with flounces and a crinoline and train.
Also, she was short and inordinately stout, while her gross, flabby
chin completely concealed her neck. Her face was purple, and the little
eyes in it had an impudent, malicious expression. Yet she walked as
though she were conferring a favour upon everybody by so doing. As for
the Baron, he was tall, wizened, bony-faced after the German fashion,
spectacled, and, apparently, about forty-five years of age. Also, he
had legs which seemed to begin almost at his chest--or, rather, at his
chin! Yet, for all his air of peacock-like conceit, his clothes sagged
a little, and his face wore a sheepish air which might have passed for
profundity.
