I grew still more interested in my friend.  His dinner done, a decanter
of wine was placed before him.  It remained untouched for a long time,
but at length with a quivering hand he filled a glass and raised it to
his lips.  Some tender wish to which he had been accustomed to give
utterance on that day, or some beloved name that he had been used to
pledge, trembled upon them at the moment.  He put it down very
hastilytook it up once moreagain put it downpressed his hand upon his
faceyesand tears stole down his cheeks, I am certain.
Without pausing to consider whether I did right or wrong, I stepped
across the room, and sitting down beside him laid my hand gently on his
arm.
My friend, I said, forgive me if I beseech you to take comfort and
consolation from the lips of an old man.  I will not preach to you what I
have not practised, indeed.  Whatever be your grief, be of a good
heartbe of a good heart, pray!
I see that you speak earnestly, he replied, and kindly I am very sure,
but
I nodded my head to show that I understood what he would say; for I had
already gathered, from a certain fixed expression in his face, and from
the attention with which he watched me while I spoke, that his sense of
hearing was destroyed.  There should be a freemasonry between us, said
I, pointing from himself to me to explain my meaning; if not in our gray
hairs, at least in our misfortunes.  You see that I am but a poor
cripple.
I never felt so happy under my affliction since the trying moment of my
first becoming conscious of it, as when he took my hand in his with a
smile that has lighted my path in life from that day, and we sat down
side by side.
This was the beginning of my friendship with the deaf gentleman; and when
was ever the slight and easy service of a kind word in season repaid by
such attachment and devotion as he has shown to me!
He produced a little set of tablets and a pencil to facilitate our
conversation, on that our first acquaintance; and I well remember how
awkward and constrained I was in writing down my share of the dialogue,
and how easily he guessed my meaning before I had written half of what I
had to say.  He told me in a faltering voice that he had not been
accustomed to be alone on that daythat it had always been a little
festival with him; and seeing that I glanced at his dress in the
expectation that he wore mourning, he added hastily that it was not that;
if it had been he thought he could have borne it better.  From that time
to the present we have never touched upon this theme.  Upon every return
of the same day we have been together; and although we make it our annual
custom to drink to each other hand in hand after dinner, and to recall
with affectionate garrulity every circumstance of our first meeting, we
always avoid this one as if by mutual consent.
