Trying to feel quite sure of this, I walked away; but before I had gone
many paces, I stopped and looked back.  There was a provoking air of
business in the lamp above the door which I could not overcome.  I began
to be afraid there might be many customersyoung men, perhaps, struggling
with the world, utter strangers in this great place, whose friends lived
at a long distance off, and whose means were too slender to enable them
to make the journey.  The supposition gave rise to so many distressing
little pictures, that in preference to carrying them home with me, I
determined to encounter the realities.  So I turned and walked in.
I was at once glad and sorry to find that there was only one person in
the dining-room; glad to know that there were not more, and sorry that he
should be there by himself.  He did not look so old as I, but like me he
was advanced in life, and his hair was nearly white.  Though I made more
noise in entering and seating myself than was quite necessary, with the
view of attracting his attention and saluting him in the good old form of
that time of year, he did not raise his head, but sat with it resting on
his hand, musing over his half-finished meal.
I called for something which would give me an excuse for remaining in the
room (I had dined early, as my housekeeper was engaged at night to
partake of some friends good cheer), and sat where I could observe
without intruding on him.  After a time he looked up.  He was aware that
somebody had entered, but could see very little of me, as I sat in the
shade and he in the light.  He was sad and thoughtful, and I forbore to
trouble him by speaking.
Let me believe it was something better than curiosity which riveted my
attention and impelled me strongly towards this gentleman.  I never saw
so patient and kind a face.  He should have been surrounded by friends,
and yet here he sat dejected and alone when all men had their friends
about them.  As often as he roused himself from his reverie he would fall
into it again, and it was plain that, whatever were the subject of his
thoughts, they were of a melancholy kind, and would not be controlled.
He was not used to solitude.  I was sure of that; for I know by myself
that if he had been, his manner would have been different, and he would
have taken some slight interest in the arrival of another.  I could not
fail to mark that he had no appetite; that he tried to eat in vain; that
time after time the plate was pushed away, and he relapsed into his
former posture.
His mind was wandering among old Christmas days, I thought.  Many of them
sprung up together, not with a long gap between each, but in unbroken
succession like days of the week.  It was a great change to find himself
for the first time (I quite settled that it _was_ the first) in an empty
silent room with no soul to care for.  I could not help following him in
imagination through crowds of pleasant faces, and then coming back to
that dull place with its bough of mistletoe sickening in the gas, and
sprigs of holly parched up already by a Simoom of roast and boiled.  The
very waiter had gone home; and his representative, a poor, lean, hungry
man, was keeping Christmas in his jacket.
