Let me, he said, die here! What a fearful vengeance is thine! Oh,
Natalie, Natalie! he exclaimed to his wife, who was kneeling beside
him, to win fame, and fortune, and yourself, I committed a dreadful
crime! With lying words I argued away the life of a fellow-creature,
whom, whilst I uttered them, I half believed to be innocent; and now,
when I have attained all I desired, and reached the summit of my hopes,
the Almighty has sent him back upon the earth to blast me with the
sight. Three times this day--three times this day! Again! again!--and
as he spoke, his wild and dilated eyes fixed themselves on one of the
individuals that surrounded him.
He is delirious, said they.
No, said the stranger! What he says is true enough,--at least in
part; and bending over the expiring man, he added, May Heaven forgive
you, Antoine de Chaulieu! I was not executed; one who well knew my
innocence saved my life. I may name him, for he is beyond the reach of
the law now,--it was Claperon, the jailor, who loved Claudine, and had
himself killed Alphonse de Bellefonds from jealousy. An unfortunate
wretch had been several years in the jail for a murder committed during
the frenzy of a fit of insanity. Long confinement had reduced him to
idiocy. To save my life Claperon substituted the senseless being for me,
on the scaffold, and he was executed in my stead. He has quitted the
country, and I have been a vagabond on the face of the earth ever since
that time. At length I obtained, through the assistance of my sister,
the situation of concierge in the Hôtel Marbouf, in the Rue
Grange-Bateliere. I entered on my new place yesterday evening, and was
desired to awaken the gentleman on the third floor at seven oclock.
When I entered the room to do so, you were asleep, but before I had time
to speak you awoke, and I recognized your features in the glass.
Knowing that I could not vindicate my innocence if you chose to seize
me, I fled, and seeing an omnibus starting for St. Denis, I got on it
with a vague idea of getting on to Calais, and crossing the Channel to
England. But having only a franc or two in my pocket, or indeed in the
world, I did not know how to procure the means of going forward; and
whilst I was lounging about the place, forming first one plan and then
another, I saw you in the church, and concluding you were in pursuit of
me, I thought the best way of eluding your vigilance was to make my way
back to Paris as fast as I could; so I set off instantly, and walked all
the way; but having no money to pay my nights lodging, I came here to
borrow a couple of livres of my sister Claudine, who lives in the fifth
story.
Thank Heaven! exclaimed the dying man; that sin is off my soul!
Natalie, dear wife, farewell! Forgive! forgive all!
