On the same floor, and opening out of this same chamber, are dining-room,
drawing-room, and divers bedrooms: each with a multiplicity of doors and
windows.  Up-stairs are divers other gaunt chambers, and a kitchen; and
down-stairs is another kitchen, which, with all sorts of strange
contrivances for burning charcoal, looks like an alchemical laboratory.
There are also some half-dozen small sitting-rooms, where the servants in
this hot July, may escape from the heat of the fire, and where the brave
Courier plays all sorts of musical instruments of his own manufacture,
all the evening long.  A mighty old, wandering, ghostly, echoing, grim,
bare house it is, as ever I beheld or thought of.
There is a little vine-covered terrace, opening from the drawing-room;
and under this terrace, and forming one side of the little garden, is
what used to be the stable.  It is now a cow-house, and has three cows in
it, so that we get new milk by the bucketful.  There is no pasturage
near, and they never go out, but are constantly lying down, and
surfeiting themselves with vine-leavesperfect Italian cows enjoying the
_dolce far niente_ all day long.  They are presided over, and slept
with, by an old man named Antonio, and his son; two burnt-sienna natives
with naked legs and feet, who wear, each, a shirt, a pair of trousers,
and a red sash, with a relic, or some sacred charm like the bonbon off a
twelfth-cake, hanging round the neck.  The old man is very anxious to
convert me to the Catholic faith, and exhorts me frequently.  We sit upon
a stone by the door, sometimes in the evening, like Robinson Crusoe and
Friday reversed; and he generally relates, towards my conversion, an
abridgment of the History of Saint Peterchiefly, I believe, from the
unspeakable delight he has in his imitation of the cock.
The view, as I have said, is charming; but in the day you must keep the
lattice-blinds close shut, or the sun would drive you mad; and when the
sun goes down you must shut up all the windows, or the mosquitoes would
tempt you to commit suicide.  So at this time of the year, you dont see
much of the prospect within doors.  As for the flies, you dont mind
them.  Nor the fleas, whose size is prodigious, and whose name is Legion,
and who populate the coach-house to that extent that I daily expect to
see the carriage going off bodily, drawn by myriads of industrious fleas
in harness.  The rats are kept away, quite comfortably, by scores of lean
cats, who roam about the garden for that purpose.  The lizards, of
course, nobody cares for; they play in the sun, and dont bite.  The
little scorpions are merely curious.  The beetles are rather late, and
have not appeared yet.  The frogs are company.  There is a preserve of
them in the grounds of the next villa; and after nightfall, one would
think that scores upon scores of women in pattens were going up and down
a wet stone pavement without a moments cessation.  That is exactly the
noise they make.
