We were off Nice, early next morning, and coasted along, within a few
miles of the Cornice road (of which more in its place) nearly all day.
We could see Genoa before three; and watching it as it gradually
developed its splendid amphitheatre, terrace rising above terrace, garden
above garden, palace above palace, height upon height, was ample
occupation for us, till we ran into the stately harbour.  Having been
duly astonished, here, by the sight of a few Cappucini monks, who were
watching the fair-weighing of some wood upon the wharf, we drove off to
Albaro, two miles distant, where we had engaged a house.
The way lay through the main streets, but not through the Strada Nuova,
or the Strada Balbi, which are the famous streets of palaces.  I never in
my life was so dismayed!  The wonderful novelty of everything, the
unusual smells, the unaccountable filth (though it is reckoned the
cleanest of Italian towns), the disorderly jumbling of dirty houses, one
upon the roof of another; the passages more squalid and more close than
any in St. Giless or old Paris; in and out of which, not vagabonds, but
well-dressed women, with white veils and great fans, were passing and
repassing; the perfect absence of resemblance in any dwelling-house, or
shop, or wall, or post, or pillar, to anything one had ever seen before;
and the disheartening dirt, discomfort, and decay; perfectly confounded
me.  I fell into a dismal reverie.  I am conscious of a feverish and
bewildered vision of saints and virgins shrines at the street cornersof
great numbers of friars, monks, and soldiersof vast red curtains, waving
in the doorways of the churchesof always going up hill, and yet seeing
every other street and passage going higher upof fruit-stalls, with
fresh lemons and oranges hanging in garlands made of vine-leavesof a
guard-house, and a drawbridgeand some gatewaysand vendors of iced
water, sitting with little trays upon the margin of the kenneland this
is all the consciousness I had, until I was set down in a rank, dull,
weedy court-yard, attached to a kind of pink jail; and was told I lived
there.
I little thought, that day, that I should ever come to have an attachment
for the very stones in the streets of Genoa, and to look back upon the
city with affection as connected with many hours of happiness and quiet!
But these are my first impressions honestly set down; and how they
changed, I will set down too.  At present, let us breathe after this
long-winded journey.
GENOA AND ITS NEIGHBOURHOOD
THE first impressions of such a place as ALBARO, the suburb of Genoa,
where I am now, as my American friends would say, located, can hardly
fail, I should imagine, to be mournful and disappointing.  It requires a
little time and use to overcome the feeling of depression consequent, at
first, on so much ruin and neglect.  Novelty, pleasant to most people, is
particularly delightful, I think, to me.  I am not easily dispirited when
I have the means of pursuing my own fancies and occupations; and I
believe I have some natural aptitude for accommodating myself to
circumstances.  But, as yet, I stroll about here, in all the holes and
corners of the neighbourhood, in a perpetual state of forlorn surprise;
and returning to my villa: the Villa Bagnerello (it sounds romantic, but
Signor Bagnerello is a butcher hard by): have sufficient occupation in
pondering over my new experiences, and comparing them, very much to my
own amusement, with my expectations, until I wander out again.
