The poor never write these letters.  Nothing could be more unlike their
habits.  The writers are public robbers; and we who support them are
parties to their depredations.  They trade upon every circumstance within
their knowledge that affects us, public or private, joyful or sorrowful;
they pervert the lessons of our lives; they change what ought to be our
strength and virtue into weakness, and encouragement of vice.  There is a
plain remedy, and it is in our own hands.  We must resolve, at any
sacrifice of feeling, to be deaf to such appeals, and crush the trade.
There are degrees in murder.  Life must be held sacred among us in more
ways than onesacred, not merely from the murderous weapon, or the subtle
poison, or the cruel blow, but sacred from preventible diseases,
distortions, and pains.  That is the first great end we have to set
against this miserable imposition.  Physical life respected, moral life
comes next.  What will not content a Begging-Letter Writer for a week,
would educate a score of children for a year.  Let us give all we can;
let us give more than ever.  Let us do all we can; let us do more than
ever.  But let us give, and do, with a high purpose; not to endow the
scum of the earth, to its own greater corruption, with the offals of our
duty.
A CHILDS DREAM OF A STAR
THERE was once a child, and he strolled about a good deal, and thought of
a number of things.  He had a sister, who was a child too, and his
constant companion.  These two used to wonder all day long.  They
wondered at the beauty of the flowers; they wondered at the height and
blueness of the sky; they wondered at the depth of the bright water; they
wondered at the goodness and the power of GOD who made the lovely world.
They used to say to one another, sometimes, Supposing all the children
upon earth were to die, would the flowers, and the water, and the sky be
sorry?  They believed they would be sorry.  For, said they, the buds are
the children of the flowers, and the little playful streams that gambol
down the hill-sides are the children of the water; and the smallest
bright specks playing at hide and seek in the sky all night, must surely
be the children of the stars; and they would all be grieved to see their
playmates, the children of men, no more.
There was one clear shining star that used to come out in the sky before
the rest, near the church spire, above the graves.  It was larger and
more beautiful, they thought, than all the others, and every night they
watched for it, standing hand in hand at a window.  Whoever saw it first
cried out, I see the star!  And often they cried out both together,
knowing so well when it would rise, and where.  So they grew to be such
friends with it, that, before lying down in their beds, they always
looked out once again, to bid it good night; and when they were turning
round to sleep, they used to say, God bless the star!
