Attached to our Assembly Rooms is a library.  There is a wheel of fortune
in it, but it is rusty and dusty, and never turns.  A large doll, with
moveable eyes, was put up to be raffled for, by five-and-twenty members
at two shillings, seven years ago this autumn, and the list is not full
yet.  We are rather sanguine, now, that the raffle will come off next
year.  We think so, because we only want nine members, and should only
want eight, but for number two having grown up since her name was
entered, and withdrawn it when she was married.  Down the street, there
is a toy-ship of considerable burden, in the same condition.  Two of the
boys who were entered for that raffle have gone to India in real ships,
since; and one was shot, and died in the arms of his sisters lover, by
whom he sent his last words home.
This is the library for the Minerva Press.  If you want that kind of
reading, come to our watering-place.  The leaves of the romances, reduced
to a condition very like curl-paper, are thickly studded with notes in
pencil: sometimes complimentary, sometimes jocose.  Some of these
commentators, like commentators in a more extensive way, quarrel with one
another.  One young gentleman who sarcastically writes O!!! after every
sentimental passage, is pursued through his literary career by another,
who writes Insulting Beast!  Miss Julia Mills has read the whole
collection of these books.  She has left marginal notes on the pages, as
Is not this truly touching?  J. M.  How thrilling!  J. M.  Entranced
here by the Magicians potent spell.  J. M.  She has also italicised her
favourite traits in the description of the hero, as his hair, which was
_dark_ and _wavy_, clustered in _rich profusion_ around a _marble brow_,
whose lofty paleness bespoke the intellect within.  It reminds her of
another hero.  She adds, How like B. L.  Can this be mere coincidence?
J. M.
You would hardly guess which is the main street of our watering-place,
but you may know it by its being always stopped up with donkey-chaises.
Whenever you come here, and see harnessed donkeys eating clover out of
barrows drawn completely across a narrow thoroughfare, you may be quite
sure you are in our High Street.  Our Police you may know by his uniform,
likewise by his never on any account interfering with anybodyespecially
the tramps and vagabonds.  In our fancy shops we have a capital
collection of damaged goods, among which the flies of countless summers
have been roaming.  We are great in obsolete seals, and in faded
pin-cushions, and in rickety camp-stools, and in exploded cutlery, and in
miniature vessels, and in stunted little telescopes, and in objects made
of shells that pretend not to be shells.  Diminutive spades, barrows, and
baskets, are our principal articles of commerce; but even they dont look
quite new somehow.  They always seem to have been offered and refused
somewhere else, before they came down to our watering-place.
