So Old Cheeseman went on, and didnt he lead a miserable life!  Of course
the Reverend turned up his nose at him, and of course _she_ didbecause
both of them always do that at all the mastersbut he suffered from the
fellows most, and he suffered from them constantly.  He never told about
it, that the Society could find out; but he got no credit for that,
because the President said it was Old Cheesemans cowardice.
He had only one friend in the world, and that one was almost as powerless
as he was, for it was only Jane.  Jane was a sort of wardrobe woman to
our fellows, and took care of the boxes.  She had come at first, I
believe, as a kind of apprenticesome of our fellows say from a Charity,
but _I_ dont knowand after her time was out, had stopped at so much a
year.  So little a year, perhaps I ought to say, for it is far more
likely.  However, she had put some pounds in the Savings Bank, and she
was a very nice young woman.  She was not quite pretty; but she had a
very frank, honest, bright face, and all our fellows were fond of her.
She was uncommonly neat and cheerful, and uncommonly comfortable and
kind.  And if anything was the matter with a fellows mother, he always
went and showed the letter to Jane.
Jane was Old Cheesemans friend.  The more the Society went against him,
the more Jane stood by him.  She used to give him a good-humoured look
out of her still-room window, sometimes, that seemed to set him up for
the day.  She used to pass out of the orchard and the kitchen garden
(always kept locked, I believe you!) through the playground, when she
might have gone the other way, only to give a turn of her head, as much
as to say Keep up your spirits! to Old Cheeseman.  His slip of a room
was so fresh and orderly that it was well known who looked after it while
he was at his desk; and when our fellows saw a smoking hot dumpling on
his plate at dinner, they knew with indignation who had sent it up.
Under these circumstances, the Society resolved, after a quantity of
meeting and debating, that Jane should be requested to cut Old Cheeseman
dead; and that if she refused, she must be sent to Coventry herself.  So
a deputation, headed by the President, was appointed to wait on Jane, and
inform her of the vote the Society had been under the painful necessity
of passing.  She was very much respected for all her good qualities, and
there was a story about her having once waylaid the Reverend in his own
study, and got a fellow off from severe punishment, of her own kind
comfortable heart.  So the deputation didnt much like the job.  However,
they went up, and the President told Jane all about it.  Upon which Jane
turned very red, burst into tears, informed the President and the
deputation, in a way not at all like her usual way, that they were a
parcel of malicious young savages, and turned the whole respected body
out of the room.  Consequently it was entered in the Societys book (kept
in astronomical cypher for fear of detection), that all communication
with Jane was interdicted: and the President addressed the members on
this convincing instance of Old Cheesemans undermining.
