Still, one day, in the midst of all these pleasures, the traveller lost
the boy as he had lost the child, and, after calling to him in vain, went
on upon his journey.  So he went on for a little while without seeing
anything, until at last he came to a young man.  So, he said to the young
man, What do you do here?  And the young man said, I am always in
love.  Come and love with me.
So, he went away with that young man, and presently they came to one of
the prettiest girls that ever was seenjust like Fanny in the corner
thereand she had eyes like Fanny, and hair like Fanny, and dimples like
Fannys, and she laughed and coloured just as Fanny does while I am
talking about her.  So, the young man fell in love directlyjust as
Somebody I wont mention, the first time he came here, did with Fanny.
Well! he was teased sometimesjust as Somebody used to be by Fanny; and
they quarrelled sometimesjust as Somebody and Fanny used to quarrel; and
they made it up, and sat in the dark, and wrote letters every day, and
never were happy asunder, and were always looking out for one another and
pretending not to, and were engaged at Christmas-time, and sat close to
one another by the fire, and were going to be married very soonall
exactly like Somebody I wont mention, and Fanny!
But, the traveller lost them one day, as he had lost the rest of his
friends, and, after calling to them to come back, which they never did,
went on upon his journey.  So, he went on for a little while without
seeing anything, until at last he came to a middle-aged gentleman.  So,
he said to the gentleman, What are you doing here?  And his answer was,
I am always busy.  Come and be busy with me!
So, he began to be very busy with that gentleman, and they went on
through the wood together.  The whole journey was through a wood, only it
had been open and green at first, like a wood in spring; and now began to
be thick and dark, like a wood in summer; some of the little trees that
had come out earliest, were even turning brown.  The gentleman was not
alone, but had a lady of about the same age with him, who was his Wife;
and they had children, who were with them too.  So, they all went on
together through the wood, cutting down the trees, and making a path
through the branches and the fallen leaves, and carrying burdens, and
working hard.
Sometimes, they came to a long green avenue that opened into deeper
woods.  Then they would hear a very little, distant voice crying,
Father, father, I am another child!  Stop for me!  And presently they
would see a very little figure, growing larger as it came along, running
to join them.  When it came up, they all crowded round it, and kissed and
welcomed it; and then they all went on together.
