Not a few of the dwellings into which Mr. Dickens conducts us in the
course of some of his best-known stories, have their walls decorated with
prints illustrative of familiar scenes from sacred history.  Thus when
Martin Chuzzlewit went away from Pecksniffs, and was ten good miles on
his way to London, he stopped to breakfast in the parlour of a little
roadside inn, on the walls of which were two or three highly-coloured
pictures, representing the Wise Men at the Manger, and the Prodigal Son
returning to his Father.  On the walls of Peggottys charming
boat-cottage there were prints, showing the Sacrifice of Isaac, and the
Casting of Daniel into the Den of Lions.  When Arthur Clennam came home
after his long absence in the East, he found the Plagues of Egypt still
hanging, framed and glazed, on the same old place in his mothers
parlour.  And who has forgotten the fireplace in old Scrooges house,
which was paved all round with quaint Dutch tiles, designed to
illustrate the Scriptures?
Here are a few comparisons.  Mr. Larry, in bestowing a bachelors
blessing on Miss Cross, before somebody came to claim her for his own,
held the fair face from him to look at the well-remembered expression on
the forehead, and then laid the bright golden hair against his little
brown wig, with a genuine tenderness and delicacy which, if such things
be old-fashioned, were as old as Adam.  As old as Adam here means so
long ago as Adams time; while Methuselah suggests great age.  Thus Miss
Jellyby relieved her mind to Miss Summerson on the subject of Mr. Quale,
in the following energetic language:If he were to come with his great
shining, lumpy forehead, night after night, till he was as old as
Methuselah, I wouldnt have anything to say to him.  And Mr. Filer, in
his eminently practical remarks on the lamentable ignorance of political
economy on the part of working people in connexion with marriage,
observed to Alderman Cute that a man may live to be as old as Methuselah,
and may labour all his life for the benefit of such people; but there
could be no more hope of persuading them that they had no right or
business to be married, than he could hope to persuade them that they had
no earthly right or business to be born.  Miss Betsy Trotwood declared to
Mr. Dick that the natural consequence of David Copperfields mother
having married a murdereror a man with a name very like itwas to set
the boy a-prowling and wandering about the country, like Cain before he
was grown up.  Joe Gargerys journeyman, on going away from his work at
night, used to slouch out of the shop like Cain, or the Wandering Jew, as
if he had no idea where he was going, and had no intention of ever coming
back.  Describing the state of the thriving City of Eden, when Martin
and Mark arrived there, the author of Martin Chuzzlewit saysThe
waters of the Deluge might have left it but a week before, so choked with
slime and matted growth was the hideous swamp which bore that name.  The
Deluge suggests Noahs ark.  The following reference to it is from
Little Dorrit, descriptive of the gradual approach of darkness up among
the highest ridges of the Alps:The ascending night came up the
mountains like a rising water.  When at last it rose to the walls of the
convent of the great St. Bernard, it was as if that weather-beaten
structure were another ark, and floated on the shadowy waves.  Here is
something from the Tower of Babel:Looming heavy in the black wet night,
the tall chimneys of the Coketown factories rose high into the air, and
looked as if they were so many competing towers of Babel.  When Mortimer
Lightwood inquired of Charley Hexam, with reference to the body of the
man found in the river, whether or not any means had been employed to
restore life, he received this reply:You wouldnt ask, sir, if you knew
his state.  Pharoahs multitude that were drowned in the Red Sea aint
more beyond restoring to life.  The boy added, further, that if Lazarus
were only half as far gone, that was the greatest of all the miracles.
When the Scotch surgeon was called in professionally to see Mr. Krooks
unfortunate lodger, the Scotch tongue pronounced him to be just as dead
as Chairy.  Jobs poverty is not likely to be forgotten among the
comparisons.  No, Mr. Mells mother was as poor as Job.  Nor Samsons
strength: Dots mother had so many infallible recipes for the
preservation of the babys health, that had they all been administered,
the said baby must have been done for, though strong as an infant Samson.
Nor Goliaths importance: John Chiverys chivalrous feeling towards all
that belonged to Little Dorrit, made him so very respectable, in spite of
his small stature, his weak legs, and his genuine poetic temperament,
that a Goliath might have sat in his place demanding less consideration
at Arthur Clennams hands.  Nor Solomons wisdom: Trotty Veck was so
delighted when the child kissed him that he couldnt help saying, Shes
as sensible as Solomon.  Miss Wade having said farewell to her
fellow-travellers in the public room of the hotel at Marseilles, sought
her own apartment.  As she passed along the gallery, she heard an angry
sound of muttering and sobbing.  A door stood open, and, looking into the
room, she saw therein Pets attendant, the maid with the curious name of
Tattycoram.  Miss Wade asked what was the matter, and received in reply a
few short and angry words in a deeply-injured, ill-used tone.  Then again
commenced the sobs and tears and pinching, tearing fingers, making
altogether such a scene as if she were being rent by the demons of old.
Let us close these comparisons by quoting another from the same book,
Little Dorrit, descriptive of the evening stillness after a day of
terrific glare and heat at Marseilles:The sun went down in a red,
green, golden glory; the stars came out in the heavens, and the
fire-flies mimicked them in the lower air, as men may feebly imitate the
goodness of a better order of beings; the long, dusty roads and the
interminable plains were in repose, and _so deep a hush was on the sea_,
_that it scarcely whispered of the time when it shall give up its dead_.
