Gentlemen, I thank you again, and once again, and many times to that.
You have given me a new reason for remembering this day, which is already
one of mark in my calendar, it being my birthday; and you have given
those who are nearest and dearest to me a new reason for recollecting it
with pride and interest.  Heaven knows that, although I should grow ever
so gray, I shall need nothing to remind me of this epoch in my life.  But
I am glad to think that from this time you are inseparably connected with
every recurrence of this day; and, that on its periodical return, I shall
always, in imagination, have the unfading pleasure of entertaining you as
my guests, in return for the gratification you have afforded me to-night.
V.
NEW YORK, FEBRUARY 18, 1842.
[At a dinner presided over by Washington Irving, when nearly eight
hundred of the most distinguished citizens of New York were present,
Charles Dickens, the Literary Guest of the Nation, having been
proferred as a sentiment by the Chairman, Mr. Dickens rose, and spoke
as follows:]
GENTLEMEN,I dont know how to thank youI really dont know how.  You
would naturally suppose that my former experience would have given me
this power, and that the difficulties in my way would have been
diminished; but I assure you the fact is exactly the reverse, and I have
completely baulked the ancient proverb that a rolling stone gathers no
moss; and in my progress to this city I have collected such a weight of
obligations and acknowledgmentI have picked up such an enormous mass of
fresh moss at every point, and was so struck by the brilliant scenes of
Monday night, that I thought I could never by any possibility grow any
bigger.  I have made, continually, new accumulations to such an extent
that I am compelled to stand still, and can roll no more!
Gentlemen, we learn from the authorities, that, when fairy stories, or
balls, or rolls of thread, stopped of their own accordas I do notit
presaged some great catastrophe near at hand. The precedent holds good in
this case.  When I have remembered the short time I have before me to
spend in this land of mighty interests, and the poor opportunity I can at
best have of acquiring a knowledge of, and forming an acquaintance with
it, I have felt it almost a duty to decline the honours you so generously
heap upon me, and pass more quietly among you.  For Argus himself, though
he had but one mouth for his hundred eyes, would have found the reception
of a public entertainment once a-week too much for his greatest activity;
and, as I would lose no scrap of the rich instruction and the delightful
knowledge which meet me on every hand, (and already I have gleaned a
great deal from your hospitals and common jails),I have resolved to take
up my staff, and go my way rejoicing, and for the future to shake hands
with America, not at parties but at home; and, therefore, gentlemen, I
say to-night, with a full heart, and an honest purpose, and grateful
feelings, that I bear, and shall ever bear, a deep sense of your kind,
your affectionate and your noble greeting, which it is utterly impossible
to convey in words.  No European sky without, and no cheerful home or
well-warmed room within shall ever shut out this land from my vision.  I
shall often hear your words of welcome in my quiet room, and oftenest
when most quiet; and shall see your faces in the blazing fire.  If I
should live to grow old, the scenes of this and other evenings will shine
as brightly to my dull eyes fifty years hence as now; and the honours you
bestow upon me shall be well remembered and paid back in my undying love,
and honest endeavours for the good of my race.
