These passages, which are only a few out of a very much longer list that
might be made, will be sufficient, we trust, to show how much our
greatest living novelist is in the habit of going to the sacred narrative
for illustrations to many of his most touching incidents, and how
reverent and respectful always is the spirit in which every such
illustration is employed.  To think of Charles Dickenss writings as
containing no religious teaching, is to do them a great injustice.
                                * * * * *
The first of Mr. Dickenss famous public Readings was given at
Birmingham, during the Christmas week of 1853.  At a meeting held on
Monday, January 10, 1853, in the theatre of the Philosophical
Institution, for the purpose of considering the desirableness of
establishing in Birmingham a Scientific and Literary Society upon a
comprehensive plan, having for its object the diffusion, &c., Mr. Arthur
Ryland read a letter from Mr. Charles Dickens, received by him the day
after the Literary and Artistic Banquet, containing an offer to visit
Birmingham next Christmas, and read his Christmas Carol, in the Town
Hall, for the benefit of the proposed Institution, with the proviso,
however, that as many as possible of the working class should be admitted
free.  It would, said Mr. Dickens, take about two hours, with a pause
of ten minutes half-way through.  There would be some novelty in the
thing, as I have never done it in public, though I have in private, and
(if I may say so) with a great effect on the hearers.  I was so
inexpressibly gratified last night by the warmth and enthusiasm of my
Birmingham friends, that I feel half ashamed this morning of so poor an
offer.  But as I had decided on making it to you before I came down
yesterday, I propose it nevertheless.
The readingsthree in numbercame off with great _éclat_ during the last
week of the year, and brought in a net sum of L400 to the Institute.  Mr.
Dickens continued from this time to give similar readings, for charitable
purposes, both in the provinces and in London; but it was not till five
years later (1858) that he began to read on his own account.
As we are writing, that long series of readingscontinued through sixteen
years, in both hemispheresis drawing to a close, and the voice and
figure of Charles Dickens, that have grown so familiar to us all, will
dwell henceforth in the memory alone, but in one of its most honoured
niches.
We ought not to omit to mention what any reader may well surmise, that
Charles Dickens is inimitable in enlivening correspondence or table-talk
with humorous anecdote, appropriate to the occasion.  We subjoin a few
specimens.  The first is from one of his letters to Douglas Jerrold, and
is dated Paris, 14th February, 1847:I am somehow reminded of a good
story I heard the other night from a man who was a witness of it, and an
actor in it.  At a certain German town last autumn there was a tremendous
_furore_ about Jenny Lind, who, after driving the whole place mad, left
it, on her travels, early one morning.  The moment her carriage was
outside the gates, a party of rampant students, who had escorted it,
rushed back to the inn, demanded to be shown to her bedroom, swept like a
whirlwind upstairs into the room indicated to them, tore up the sheets,
and wore them in strips as decorations.  An hour or two afterwards a bald
old gentleman, of amiable appearance, an Englishman, who was staying in
the hotel, came to breakfast at the _table dhôte_, and was observed to
be much disturbed in his mind, and to show great terror whenever a
student came near him.  At last he said, in a low voice, to some people
who were near him at the table, You are English gentlemen, I observe.
Most extraordinary people, these Germans!  Students, as a body, raving
mad, gentlemen!  Oh, no! said somebody else; excitable, but very good
fellows, and very sensible.  By God, sir! returned the old gentleman,
still more disturbed, then theres something political in it, and I am a
marked man.  I went out for a little walk this morning after shaving, and
while I was gonehe fell into a terrible perspiration as he told
itthey burst into my bedroom, tore up my sheets, and are now patrolling
the town in all directions with bits of em in their button-holes!  I
neednt wind up by adding that they had gone to the wrong chamber.
