    Tongues in the trees, books in the running brooks,
    Sermons in stones, and good in everything.
Gentlemen, keeping these objects steadily before me, I am at no loss to
refer your favour and your generous hospitality back to the right source.
While I know, on the one hand, that if, instead of being what it is, this
were a land of tyranny and wrong, I should care very little for your
smiles or frowns, so I am sure upon the other, that if, instead of being
what I am, I were the greatest genius that ever trod the earth, and had
diverted myself for the oppression and degradation of mankind, you would
despise and reject me.  I hope you will, whenever, through such means, I
give you the opportunity.  Trust me, that, whenever you give me the like
occasion, I will return the compliment with interest.
Gentlemen, as I have no secrets from you, in the spirit of confidence you
have engendered between us, and as I have made a kind of compact with
myself that I never will, while I remain in America, omit an opportunity
of referring to a topic in which I and all others of my class on both
sides of the water are equally interestedequally interested, there is no
difference between us, I would beg leave to whisper in your ear two
words: _International Copyright_.  I use them in no sordid sense, believe
me, and those who know me best, best know that.  For myself, I would
rather that my children, coming after me, trudged in the mud, and knew by
the general feeling of society that their father was beloved, and had
been of some use, than I would have them ride in their carriages, and
know by their bankers books that he was rich.  But I do not see, I
confess, why one should be obliged to make the choice, or why fame,
besides playing that delightful _reveil_ for which she is so justly
celebrated, should not blow out of her trumpet a few notes of a different
kind from those with which she has hitherto contented herself.
It was well observed the other night by a beautiful speaker, whose words
went to the heart of every man who heard him, that, if there had existed
any law in this respect, Scott might not have sunk beneath the mighty
pressure on his brain, but might have lived to add new creatures of his
fancy to the crowd which swarm about you in your summer walks, and gather
round your winter evening hearths.
As I listened to his words, there came back, fresh upon me, that touching
scene in the great mans life, when he lay upon his couch, surrounded by
his family, and listened, for the last time, to the rippling of the river
he had so well loved, over its stony bed.  I pictured him to myself,
faint, wan, dying, crushed both in mind and body by his honourable
struggle, and hovering round him the phantoms of his own
imaginationWaverley, Ravenswood, Jeanie Deans, Rob Roy, Caleb
Balderstone, Dominie Sampsonall the familiar throngwith cavaliers, and
Puritans, and Highland chiefs innumerable overflowing the chamber, and
fading away in the dim distance beyond.  I pictured them, fresh from
traversing the world, and hanging down their heads in shame and sorrow,
that, from all those lands into which they had carried gladness,
instruction, and delight for millions, they brought him not one friendly
hand to help to raise him from that sad, sad bed.  No, nor brought him
from that land in which his own language was spoken, and in every house
and hut of which his own books were read in his own tongue, one grateful
dollar-piece to buy a garland for his grave.  Oh! if every man who goes
from here, as many do, to look upon that tomb in Dryburgh Abbey, would
but remember this, and bring the recollection home!
