As the spectators at this theatre, for a reason I will presently show,
were the object of my journey, I entered on the play of the night as one
of the two thousand and odd hundreds, by looking about me at my
neighbours.  We were a motley assemblage of people, and we had a good
many boys and young men among us; we had also many girls and young women.
To represent, however, that we did not include a very great number, and a
very fair proportion of family groups, would be to make a gross
mis-statement.  Such groups were to be seen in all parts of the house; in
the boxes and stalls particularly, they were composed of persons of very
decent appearance, who had many children with them.  Among our dresses
there were most kinds of shabby and greasy wear, and much fustian and
corduroy that was neither sound nor fragrant.  The caps of our young men
were mostly of a limp character, and we who wore them, slouched,
high-shouldered, into our places with our hands in our pockets, and
occasionally twisted our cravats about our necks like eels, and
occasionally tied them down our breasts like links of sausages, and
occasionally had a screw in our hair over each cheek-bone with a slight
Thief-flavour in it.  Besides prowlers and idlers, we were mechanics,
dock-labourers, costermongers, petty tradesmen, small clerks, milliners,
stay-makers, shoe-binders, slop-workers, poor workers in a hundred
highways and byways.  Many of uson the whole, the majoritywere not at
all clean, and not at all choice in our lives or conversation.  But we
had all come together in a place where our convenience was well
consulted, and where we were well looked after, to enjoy an evenings
entertainment in common.  We were not going to lose any part of what we
had paid for through anybodys caprice, and as a community we had a
character to lose.  So, we were closely attentive, and kept excellent
order; and let the man or boy who did otherwise instantly get out from
this place, or we would put him out with the greatest expedition.
We began at half-past six with a pantomimewith a pantomime so long, that
before it was over I felt as if I had been travelling for six weeksgoing
to India, say, by the Overland Mail.  The Spirit of Liberty was the
principal personage in the Introduction, and the Four Quarters of the
World came out of the globe, glittering, and discoursed with the Spirit,
who sang charmingly.  We were delighted to understand that there was no
liberty anywhere but among ourselves, and we highly applauded the
agreeable fact.  In an allegorical way, which did as well as any other
way, we and the Spirit of Liberty got into a kingdom of Needles and Pins,
and found them at war with a potentate who called in to his aid their old
arch enemy Rust, and who would have got the better of them if the Spirit
of Liberty had not in the nick of time transformed the leaders into
Clown, Pantaloon, Harlequin, Columbine, Harlequina, and a whole family of
Sprites, consisting of a remarkably stout father and three spineless
sons.  We all knew what was coming when the Spirit of Liberty addressed
the king with a big face, and His Majesty backed to the side-scenes and
began untying himself behind, with his big face all on one side.  Our
excitement at that crisis was great, and our delight unbounded.  After
this era in our existence, we went through all the incidents of a
pantomime; it was not by any means a savage pantomime, in the way of
burning or boiling people, or throwing them out of window, or cutting
them up; was often very droll; was always liberally got up, and cleverly
presented.  I noticed that the people who kept the shops, and who
represented the passengers in the thoroughfares, and so forth, had no
conventionality in them, but were unusually like the real thingfrom
which I infer that you may take that audience in (if you wish to)
concerning Knights and Ladies, Fairies, Angels, or such like, but they
are not to be done as to anything in the streets.  I noticed, also, that
when two young men, dressed in exact imitation of the
eel-and-sausage-cravated portion of the audience, were chased by
policemen, and, finding themselves in danger of being caught, dropped so
suddenly as to oblige the policemen to tumble over them, there was great
rejoicing among the capsas though it were a delicate reference to
something they had heard of before.
