Again.  Is it necessary or advisable to address such an audience
continually as fellow-sinners?  Is it not enough to be
fellow-creatures, born yesterday, suffering and striving to-day, dying
to-morrow?  By our common humanity, my brothers and sisters, by our
common capacities for pain and pleasure, by our common laughter and our
common tears, by our common aspiration to reach something better than
ourselves, by our common tendency to believe in something good, and to
invest whatever we love or whatever we lose with some qualities that are
superior to our own failings and weaknesses as we know them in our own
poor heartsby these, Hear me!Surely, it is enough to be
fellow-creatures.  Surely, it includes the other designation, and some
touching meanings over and above.
Again.  There was a personage introduced into the discourse (not an
absolute novelty, to the best of my remembrance of my reading), who had
been personally known to the preacher, and had been quite a Crichton in
all the ways of philosophy, but had been an infidel.  Many a time had the
preacher talked with him on that subject, and many a time had he failed
to convince that intelligent man.  But he fell ill, and died, and before
he died he recorded his conversionin words which the preacher had taken
down, my fellow-sinners, and would read to you from this piece of paper.
I must confess that to me, as one of an uninstructed audience, they did
not appear particularly edifying.  I thought their tone extremely
selfish, and I thought they had a spiritual vanity in them which was of
the before-mentioned refractory paupers family.
All slangs and twangs are objectionable everywhere, but the slang and
twang of the conventicleas bad in its way as that of the House of
Commons, and nothing worse can be said of itshould be studiously avoided
under such circumstances as I describe.  The avoidance was not complete
on this occasion.  Nor was it quite agreeable to see the preacher
addressing his pet points to his backers on the stage, as if appealing
to those disciples to show him up, and testify to the multitude that each
of those points was a clincher.
But, in respect of the large Christianity of his general tone; of his
renunciation of all priestly authority; of his earnest and reiterated
assurance to the people that the commonest among them could work out
their own salvation if they would, by simply, lovingly, and dutifully
following Our Saviour, and that they needed the mediation of no erring
man; in these particulars, this gentleman deserved all praise.  Nothing
could be better than the spirit, or the plain emphatic words of his
discourse in these respects.  And it was a most significant and
encouraging circumstance that whenever he struck that chord, or whenever
he described anything which Christ himself had done, the array of faces
before him was very much more earnest, and very much more expressive of
emotion, than at any other time.
And now, I am brought to the fact, that the lowest part of the audience
of the previous night, _was not there_.  There is no doubt about it.
There was no such thing in that building, that Sunday evening.  I have
been told since, that the lowest part of the audience of the Victoria
Theatre has been attracted to its Sunday services.  I have been very glad
to hear it, but on this occasion of which I write, the lowest part of the
usual audience of the Britannia Theatre, decidedly and unquestionably
stayed away.  When I first took my seat and looked at the house, my
surprise at the change in its occupants was as great as my
disappointment.  To the most respectable class of the previous evening,
was added a great number of respectable strangers attracted by curiosity,
and drafts from the regular congregations of various chapels.  It was
impossible to fail in identifying the character of these last, and they
were very numerous.  I came out in a strong, slow tide of them setting
from the boxes.  Indeed, while the discourse was in progress, the
respectable character of the auditory was so manifest in their
appearance, that when the minister addressed a supposititious outcast,
one really felt a little impatient of it, as a figure of speech not
justified by anything the eye could discover.
