Besides which, another little boythe biggest there, but still littlewas
tottering to and fro, bent on one side, and considerably affected in his
knees by the weight of a large baby, which he was supposed by a fiction
that obtains sometimes in sanguine families, to be hushing to sleep.  But
oh! the inexhaustible regions of contemplation and watchfulness into
which this babys eyes were then only beginning to compose themselves to
stare, over his unconscious shoulder!
It was a very Moloch of a baby, on whose insatiate altar the whole
existence of this particular young brother was offered up a daily
sacrifice.  Its personality may be said to have consisted in its never
being quiet, in any one place, for five consecutive minutes, and never
going to sleep when required.  Tetterbys baby was as well known in the
neighbourhood as the postman or the pot-boy.  It roved from door-step to
door-step, in the arms of little Johnny Tetterby, and lagged heavily at
the rear of troops of juveniles who followed the Tumblers or the Monkey,
and came up, all on one side, a little too late for everything that was
attractive, from Monday morning until Saturday night.  Wherever childhood
congregated to play, there was little Moloch making Johnny fag and toil.
Wherever Johnny desired to stay, little Moloch became fractious, and
would not remain.  Whenever Johnny wanted to go out, Moloch was asleep,
and must be watched.  Whenever Johnny wanted to stay at home, Moloch was
awake, and must be taken out.  Yet Johnny was verily persuaded that it
was a faultless baby, without its peer in the realm of England, and was
quite content to catch meek glimpses of things in general from behind its
skirts, or over its limp flapping bonnet, and to go staggering about with
it like a very little porter with a very large parcel, which was not
directed to anybody, and could never be delivered anywhere.
The small man who sat in the small parlour, making fruitless attempts to
read his newspaper peaceably in the midst of this disturbance, was the
father of the family, and the chief of the firm described in the
inscription over the little shop front, by the name and title of A.
TETTERBY AND CO., NEWSMEN.  Indeed, strictly speaking, he was the only
personage answering to that designation, as Co. was a mere poetical
abstraction, altogether baseless and impersonal.
Tetterbys was the corner shop in Jerusalem Buildings.  There was a good
show of literature in the window, chiefly consisting of
picture-newspapers out of date, and serial pirates, and footpads.
Walking-sticks, likewise, and marbles, were included in the stock in
trade.  It had once extended into the light confectionery line; but it
would seem that those elegancies of life were not in demand about
Jerusalem Buildings, for nothing connected with that branch of commerce
remained in the window, except a sort of small glass lantern containing a
languishing mass of bulls-eyes, which had melted in the summer and
congealed in the winter until all hope of ever getting them out, or of
eating them without eating the lantern too, was gone for ever.
Tetterbys had tried its hand at several things.  It had once made a
feeble little dart at the toy business; for, in another lantern, there
was a heap of minute wax dolls, all sticking together upside down, in the
direst confusion, with their feet on one anothers heads, and a
precipitate of broken arms and legs at the bottom.  It had made a move in
the millinery direction, which a few dry, wiry bonnet-shapes remained in
a corner of the window to attest.  It had fancied that a living might lie
hidden in the tobacco trade, and had stuck up a representation of a
native of each of the three integral portions of the British Empire, in
the act of consuming that fragrant weed; with a poetic legend attached,
importing that united in one cause they sat and joked, one chewed
tobacco, one took snuff, one smoked: but nothing seemed to have come of
itexcept flies.  Time had been when it had put a forlorn trust in
imitative jewellery, for in one pane of glass there was a card of cheap
seals, and another of pencil-cases, and a mysterious black amulet of
inscrutable intention, labelled ninepence.  But, to that hour, Jerusalem
Buildings had bought none of them.  In short, Tetterbys had tried so
hard to get a livelihood out of Jerusalem Buildings in one way or other,
and appeared to have done so indifferently in all, that the best position
in the firm was too evidently Co.s; Co., as a bodiless creation, being
untroubled with the vulgar inconveniences of hunger and thirst, being
chargeable neither to the poors-rates nor the assessed taxes, and having
no young family to provide for.
