And yet, on such a night in so degenerate a time, the object of my
journey was theatrical.  And yet within half an hour I was in an immense
theatre, capable of holding nearly five thousand people.
What Theatre?  Her Majestys?  Far better.  Royal Italian Opera?  Far
better.  Infinitely superior to the latter for hearing in; infinitely
superior to both, for seeing in.  To every part of this Theatre, spacious
fire-proof ways of ingress and egress.  For every part of it, convenient
places of refreshment and retiring rooms.  Everything to eat and drink
carefully supervised as to quality, and sold at an appointed price;
respectable female attendants ready for the commonest women in the
audience; a general air of consideration, decorum, and supervision, most
commendable; an unquestionably humanising influence in all the social
arrangements of the place.
Surely a dear Theatre, then?  Because there were in London (not very long
ago) Theatres with entrance-prices up to half-a-guinea a head, whose
arrangements were not half so civilised.  Surely, therefore, a dear
Theatre?  Not very dear.  A gallery at three-pence, another gallery at
fourpence, a pit at sixpence, boxes and pit-stalls at a shilling, and a
few private boxes at half-a-crown.
My uncommercial curiosity induced me to go into every nook of this great
place, and among every class of the audience assembled in itamounting
that evening, as I calculated, to about two thousand and odd hundreds.
Magnificently lighted by a firmament of sparkling chandeliers, the
building was ventilated to perfection.  My sense of smell, without being
particularly delicate, has been so offended in some of the commoner
places of public resort, that I have often been obliged to leave them
when I have made an uncommercial journey expressly to look on.  The air
of this Theatre was fresh, cool, and wholesome.  To help towards this
end, very sensible precautions had been used, ingeniously combining the
experience of hospitals and railway stations.  Asphalt pavements
substituted for wooden floors, honest bare walls of glazed brick and
tileeven at the back of the boxesfor plaster and paper, no benches
stuffed, and no carpeting or baize used; a cool material with a light
glazed surface, being the covering of the seats.
                        [Picture: A Cheap Theatre]
These various contrivances are as well considered in the place in
question as if it were a Fever Hospital; the result is, that it is sweet
and healthful.  It has been constructed from the ground to the roof, with
a careful reference to sight and sound in every corner; the result is,
that its form is beautiful, and that the appearance of the audience, as
seen from the prosceniumwith every face in it commanding the stage, and
the whole so admirably raked and turned to that centre, that a hand can
scarcely move in the great assemblage without the movement being seen
from thenceis highly remarkable in its union of vastness with
compactness.  The stage itself, and all its appurtenances of machinery,
cellarage, height and breadth, are on a scale more like the Scala at
Milan, or the San Carlo at Naples, or the Grand Opera at Paris, than any
notion a stranger would be likely to form of the Britannia Theatre at
Hoxton, a mile north of St. Lukes Hospital in the Old-street-road,
London.  The Forty Thieves might be played here, and every thief ride his
real horse, and the disguised captain bring in his oil jars on a train of
real camels, and nobody be put out of the way.  This really extraordinary
place is the achievement of one mans enterprise, and was erected on the
ruins of an inconvenient old building in less than five months, at a
round cost of five-and-twenty thousand pounds.  To dismiss this part of
my subject, and still to render to the proprietor the credit that is
strictly his due, I must add that his sense of the responsibility upon
him to make the best of his audience, and to do his best for them, is a
highly agreeable sign of these times.
