Trotty sat quite still.  Meg dried her eyes, and said more gaily: that is
to say, with here a laugh, and there a sob, and here a laugh and sob
together:
So Richard says, father; as his work was yesterday made certain for some
time to come, and as I love him, and have loved him full three yearsah!
longer than that, if he knew it!will I marry him on New Years Day; the
best and happiest day, he says, in the whole year, and one that is almost
sure to bring good fortune with it.  Its a short notice, fatherisnt
it?but I havent my fortune to be settled, or my wedding dresses to be
made, like the great ladies, father, have I?  And he said so much, and
said it in his way; so strong and earnest, and all the time so kind and
gentle; that I said Id come and talk to you, father.  And as they paid
the money for that work of mine this morning (unexpectedly, I am sure!)
and as you have fared very poorly for a whole week, and as I couldnt
help wishing there should be something to make this day a sort of holiday
to you as well as a dear and happy day to me, father, I made a little
treat and brought it to surprise you.
And see how he leaves it cooling on the step! said another voice.
It was the voice of this same Richard, who had come upon them unobserved,
and stood before the father and daughter; looking down upon them with a
face as glowing as the iron on which his stout sledge-hammer daily rung.
A handsome, well-made, powerful youngster he was; with eyes that sparkled
like the red-hot droppings from a furnace fire; black hair that curled
about his swarthy temples rarely; and a smilea smile that bore out Megs
eulogium on his style of conversation.
See how he leaves it cooling on the step! said Richard.  Meg dont
know what he likes.  Not she!
Trotty, all action and enthusiasm, immediately reached up his hand to
Richard, and was going to address him in great hurry, when the house-door
opened without any warning, and a footman very nearly put his foot into
the tripe.
Out of the vays here, will you!  You must always go and be a-settin on
our steps, must you!  You cant go and give a turn to none of the
neighbours never, cant you!  _Will_ you clear the road, or wont you?
Strictly speaking, the last question was irrelevant, as they had already
done it.
Whats the matter, whats the matter! said the gentleman for whom the
door was opened; coming out of the house at that kind of light-heavy
pacethat peculiar compromise between a walk and a jog-trotwith which a
gentleman upon the smooth down-hill of life, wearing creaking boots, a
watch-chain, and clean linen, _may_ come out of his house: not only
without any abatement of his dignity, but with an expression of having
important and wealthy engagements elsewhere.  Whats the matter!  Whats
the matter!
