The Flowers, however, were excessively annoyed at their behaviour, and at
the behaviour of the birds.  It only shows, they said, what a
vulgarising effect this incessant rushing and flying about has.
Well-bred people always stay exactly in the same place, as we do.  No one
ever saw us hopping up and down the walks, or galloping madly through the
grass after dragon-flies.  When we do want change of air, we send for the
gardener, and he carries us to another bed.  This is dignified, and as it
should be.  But birds and lizards have no sense of repose, and indeed
birds have not even a permanent address.  They are mere vagrants like the
gipsies, and should be treated in exactly the same manner.  So they put
their noses in the air, and looked very haughty, and were quite delighted
when after some time they saw the little Dwarf scramble up from the
grass, and make his way across the terrace to the palace.
He should certainly be kept indoors for the rest of his natural life,
they said.  Look at his hunched back, and his crooked legs, and they
began to titter.
But the little Dwarf knew nothing of all this.  He liked the birds and
the lizards immensely, and thought that the flowers were the most
marvellous things in the whole world, except of course the Infanta, but
then she had given him the beautiful white rose, and she loved him, and
that made a great difference.  How he wished that he had gone back with
her!  She would have put him on her right hand, and smiled at him, and he
would have never left her side, but would have made her his playmate, and
taught her all kinds of delightful tricks.  For though he had never been
in a palace before, he knew a great many wonderful things.  He could make
little cages out of rushes for the grasshoppers to sing in, and fashion
the long jointed bamboo into the pipe that Pan loves to hear.  He knew
the cry of every bird, and could call the starlings from the tree-top, or
the heron from the mere.  He knew the trail of every animal, and could
track the hare by its delicate footprints, and the boar by the trampled
leaves.  All the wild-dances he knew, the mad dance in red raiment with
the autumn, the light dance in blue sandals over the corn, the dance with
white snow-wreaths in winter, and the blossom-dance through the orchards
in spring.  He knew where the wood-pigeons built their nests, and once
when a fowler had snared the parent birds, he had brought up the young
ones himself, and had built a little dovecot for them in the cleft of a
pollard elm.  They were quite tame, and used to feed out of his hands
every morning.  She would like them, and the rabbits that scurried about
in the long fern, and the jays with their steely feathers and black
bills, and the hedgehogs that could curl themselves up into prickly
balls, and the great wise tortoises that crawled slowly about, shaking
their heads and nibbling at the young leaves.  Yes, she must certainly
come to the forest and play with him.  He would give her his own little
bed, and would watch outside the window till dawn, to see that the wild
horned cattle did not harm her, nor the gaunt wolves creep too near the
hut.  And at dawn he would tap at the shutters and wake her, and they
would go out and dance together all the day long.  It was really not a
bit lonely in the forest.  Sometimes a Bishop rode through on his white
mule, reading out of a painted book.  Sometimes in their green velvet
caps, and their jerkins of tanned deerskin, the falconers passed by, with
hooded hawks on their wrists.  At vintage-time came the grape-treaders,
with purple hands and feet, wreathed with glossy ivy and carrying
dripping skins of wine; and the charcoal-burners sat round their huge
braziers at night, watching the dry logs charring slowly in the fire, and
roasting chestnuts in the ashes, and the robbers came out of their caves
and made merry with them.  Once, too, he had seen a beautiful procession
winding up the long dusty road to Toledo.  The monks went in front
singing sweetly, and carrying bright banners and crosses of gold, and
then, in silver armour, with matchlocks and pikes, came the soldiers, and
in their midst walked three barefooted men, in strange yellow dresses
painted all over with wonderful figures, and carrying lighted candles in
their hands.  Certainly there was a great deal to look at in the forest,
and when she was tired he would find a soft bank of moss for her, or
carry her in his arms, for he was very strong, though he knew that he was
not tall.  He would make her a necklace of red bryony berries, that would
be quite as pretty as the white berries that she wore on her dress, and
when she was tired of them, she could throw them away, and he would find
her others.  He would bring her acorn-cups and dew-drenched anemones, and
tiny glow-worms to be stars in the pale gold of her hair.
