But where was she?  He asked the white rose, and it made him no answer.
The whole palace seemed asleep, and even where the shutters had not been
closed, heavy curtains had been drawn across the windows to keep out the
glare.  He wandered all round looking for some place through which he
might gain an entrance, and at last he caught sight of a little private
door that was lying open.  He slipped through, and found himself in a
splendid hall, far more splendid, he feared, than the forest, there was
so much more gilding everywhere, and even the floor was made of great
coloured stones, fitted together into a sort of geometrical pattern.  But
the little Infanta was not there, only some wonderful white statues that
looked down on him from their jasper pedestals, with sad blank eyes and
strangely smiling lips.
At the end of the hall hung a richly embroidered curtain of black velvet,
powdered with suns and stars, the Kings favourite devices, and broidered
on the colour he loved best.  Perhaps she was hiding behind that?  He
would try at any rate.
So he stole quietly across, and drew it aside.  No; there was only
another room, though a prettier room, he thought, than the one he had
just left.  The walls were hung with a many-figured green arras of
needle-wrought tapestry representing a hunt, the work of some Flemish
artists who had spent more than seven years in its composition.  It had
once been the chamber of _Jean le Fou_, as he was called, that mad King
who was so enamoured of the chase, that he had often tried in his
delirium to mount the huge rearing horses, and to drag down the stag on
which the great hounds were leaping, sounding his hunting horn, and
stabbing with his dagger at the pale flying deer.  It was now used as the
council-room, and on the centre table were lying the red portfolios of
the ministers, stamped with the gold tulips of Spain, and with the arms
and emblems of the house of Hapsburg.
The little Dwarf looked in wonder all round him, and was half-afraid to
go on.  The strange silent horsemen that galloped so swiftly through the
long glades without making any noise, seemed to him like those terrible
phantoms of whom he had heard the charcoal-burners speakingthe
Comprachos, who hunt only at night, and if they meet a man, turn him into
a hind, and chase him.  But he thought of the pretty Infanta, and took
courage.  He wanted to find her alone, and to tell her that he too loved
her.  Perhaps she was in the room beyond.
He ran across the soft Moorish carpets, and opened the door.  No!  She
was not here either.  The room was quite empty.
It was a throne-room, used for the reception of foreign ambassadors, when
the King, which of late had not been often, consented to give them a
personal audience; the same room in which, many years before, envoys had
appeared from England to make arrangements for the marriage of their
Queen, then one of the Catholic sovereigns of Europe, with the Emperors
eldest son.  The hangings were of gilt Cordovan leather, and a heavy gilt
chandelier with branches for three hundred wax lights hung down from the
black and white ceiling.  Underneath a great canopy of gold cloth, on
which the lions and towers of Castile were broidered in seed pearls,
stood the throne itself, covered with a rich pall of black velvet studded
with silver tulips and elaborately fringed with silver and pearls.  On
the second step of the throne was placed the kneeling-stool of the
Infanta, with its cushion of cloth of silver tissue, and below that
again, and beyond the limit of the canopy, stood the chair for the Papal
Nuncio, who alone had the right to be seated in the Kings presence on
the occasion of any public ceremonial, and whose Cardinals hat, with its
tangled scarlet tassels, lay on a purple _tabouret_ in front.  On the
wall, facing the throne, hung a life-sized portrait of Charles V. in
hunting dress, with a great mastiff by his side, and a picture of Philip
II. receiving the homage of the Netherlands occupied the centre of the
other wall.  Between the windows stood a black ebony cabinet, inlaid with
plates of ivory, on which the figures from Holbeins Dance of Death had
been gravedby the hand, some said, of that famous master himself.
