Now, Plato created his on _a priori_ principles; Aristotle formed his by
an analysis of existing constitutions; Polybius found his realised for
him in the actual world of fact.  Aristotle criticised the deductive
speculations of Plato by means of inductive negative instances, but
Polybius will not take the Cloud City of the _Republic_ into account at
all.  He compares it to an athlete who has never run on Constitution
Hill, to a statue so beautiful that it is entirely removed from the
ordinary conditions of humanity, and consequently from the canons of
criticism.
The Roman state had attained in his eyes, by means of the mutual
counteraction of three opposing forces, {59} that stable equilibrium in
politics which was the ideal of all the theoretical writers of antiquity.
And in connection with this point it will be convenient to notice here
how much truth there is contained in the accusation often brought against
the ancients that they knew nothing of the idea of Progress, for the
meaning of many of their speculations will be hidden from us if we do not
try and comprehend first what their aim was, and secondly why it was so.
Now, like all wide generalities, this statement is at least inaccurate.
The prayer of Platos ideal City_<U+1F10><U+03BE> <U+1F00><U+03B3><U+03B1><U+03B8><U+1FF6><U+03BD> <U+1F00>µ<U+03B5><U+1F77><U+03BD><U+03BF><U+03C5><U+03C2>_, _<U+03BA><U+03B1><U+1F76> <U+1F10><U+03BE> <U+1F60><U+03C6><U+03B5><U+03BB><U+03B9>µ<U+1FF6><U+03BD>
<U+1F60><U+03C6><U+03B5><U+03BB><U+03B9>µ<U+03C9><U+03C4><U+1F73><U+03C1><U+03BF><U+03C5><U+03C2> <U+1F00><U+03B5><U+1F76> <U+03C4><U+03BF><U+1F7A><U+03C2> <U+1F10><U+03BA><U+03B3><U+1F79><U+03BD><U+03BF><U+03C5><U+03C2> <U+03B3><U+1F77><U+03B3><U+03BD><U+03B5><U+03C3><U+03B8><U+03B1><U+03B9>_, might be written as a text
over the door of the last Temple to Humanity raised by the disciples of
Fourier and Saint-Simon, but it is certainly true that their ideal
principle was order and permanence, not indefinite progress.  For,
setting aside the artistic prejudices which would have led the Greeks to
reject this idea of unlimited improvement, we may note that the modern
conception of progress rests partly on the new enthusiasm and worship of
humanity, partly on the splendid hopes of material improvements in
civilisation which applied science has held out to us, two influences
from which ancient Greek thought seems to have been strangely free.  For
the Greeks marred the perfect humanism of the great men whom they
worshipped, by imputing to them divinity and its supernatural powers;
while their science was eminently speculative and often almost mystic in
its character, aiming at culture and not utility, at higher spirituality
and more intense reverence for law, rather than at the increased
facilities of locomotion and the cheap production of common things about
which our modern scientific school ceases not to boast.  And lastly, and
perhaps chiefly, we must remember that the plague spot of all Greek
states, as one of their own writers has called it, was the terrible
insecurity to life and property which resulted from the factions and
revolutions which ceased not to trouble Greece at all times, raising a
spirit of fanaticism such as religion raised in the middle ages of
Europe.
These considerations, then, will enable us to understand first how it was
that, radical and unscrupulous reformers as the Greek political theorists
were, yet, their end once attained, no modern conservatives raised such
outcry against the slightest innovation.  Even acknowledged improvements
in such things as the games of children or the modes of music were
regarded by them with feelings of extreme apprehension as the herald of
the _drapeau rouge_ of reform.  And secondly, it will show us how it was
that Polybius found his ideal in the commonwealth of Rome, and Aristotle,
like Mr. Bright, in the middle classes.  Polybius, however, is not
content merely with pointing out his ideal state, but enters at
considerable length into the question of those general laws whose
consideration forms the chief essential of the philosophy of history.
