There is, of course, something a little trivial in some of the instances
I have quoted; but in a writer like Herodotus, who stands on the
borderland between faith and rationalism, one likes to note even the most
minute instances of the rise of the critical and sceptical spirit of
inquiry.
How really strange, at base, it was with him may, I think, be shown by a
reference to those passages where he applies rationalistic tests to
matters connected with religion.  He nowhere, indeed, grapples with the
moral and scientific difficulties of the Greek Bible; and where he
rejects as incredible the marvellous achievements of Hercules in Egypt,
he does so on the express grounds that he had not yet been received among
the gods, and so was still subject to the ordinary conditions of mortal
life (_<U+1F14><U+03C4><U+03B9> <U+1F04><U+03BD><U+03B8><U+03C1><U+03C9><U+03C0><U+03BF><U+03BD> <U+1F10><U+03CC><U+03BD><U+03C4><U+03B1>_).
Even within these limits, however, his religious conscience seems to have
been troubled at such daring rationalism, and the passage (ii. 45)
concludes with a pious hope that God will pardon him for having gone so
far, the great rationalistic passage being, of course, that in which he
rejects the mythical account of the foundation of Dodona.  How can a
dove speak with a human voice? he asks, and rationalises the bird into a
foreign princess.
Similarly he seems more inclined to believe that the great storm at the
beginning of the Persian War ceased from ordinary atmospheric causes, and
not in consequence of the incantations of the _Magians_.  He calls
Melampos, whom the majority of the Greeks looked on as an inspired
prophet, a clever man who had acquired for himself the art of prophecy;
and as regards the miracle told of the Aginetan statues of the primeval
deities of Damia and Auxesia, that they fell on their knees when the
sacrilegious Athenians strove to carry them off, any one may believe
it, he says, who likes, but as for myself, I place no credence in the
tale.
So much then for the rationalistic spirit of historical criticism, as far
as it appears explicitly in the works of this great and philosophic
writer; but for an adequate appreciation of his position we must also
note how conscious he was of the value of documentary evidence, of the
use of inscriptions, of the importance of the poets as throwing light on
manners and customs as well as on historical incidents.  No writer of any
age has more vividly recognised the fact that history is a matter of
evidence, and that it is as necessary for the historian to state his
authority as it is to produce ones witnesses in a court of law.
While, however, we can discern in Herodotus the rise of an historic
sense, we must not blind ourselves to the large amount of instances where
he receives supernatural influences as part of the ordinary forces of
life.  Compared to Thucydides, who succeeded him in the development of
history, he appears almost like a mediaval writer matched with a modern
rationalist.  For, contemporary though they were, between these two
authors there is an infinite chasm of thought.
