And when that day dawns, or sunset reddens, how joyous we shall all be!
Facts will be regarded as discreditable, Truth will be found mourning
over her fetters, and Romance, with her temper of wonder, will return to
the land.  The very aspect of the world will change to our startled eyes.
Out of the sea will rise Behemoth and Leviathan, and sail round the
high-pooped galleys, as they do on the delightful maps of those ages when
books on geography were actually readable.  Dragons will wander about the
waste places, and the phoenix will soar from her nest of fire into the
air.  We shall lay our hands upon the basilisk, and see the jewel in the
toads head.  Champing his gilded oats, the Hippogriff will stand in our
stalls, and over our heads will float the Blue Bird singing of beautiful
and impossible things, of things that are lovely and that never happen,
of things that are not and that should be.  But before this comes to pass
we must cultivate the lost art of Lying.
CYRIL.  Then we must entirely cultivate it at once.  But in order to
avoid making any error I want you to tell me briefly the doctrines of the
new asthetics.
VIVIAN.  Briefly, then, they are these.  Art never expresses anything but
itself.  It has an independent life, just as Thought has, and develops
purely on its own lines.  It is not necessarily realistic in an age of
realism, nor spiritual in an age of faith.  So far from being the
creation of its time, it is usually in direct opposition to it, and the
only history that it preserves for us is the history of its own progress.
Sometimes it returns upon its footsteps, and revives some antique form,
as happened in the archaistic movement of late Greek Art, and in the
pre-Raphaelite movement of our own day.  At other times it entirely
anticipates its age, and produces in one century work that it takes
another century to understand, to appreciate and to enjoy.  In no case
does it reproduce its age.  To pass from the art of a time to the time
itself is the great mistake that all historians commit.
The second doctrine is this.  All bad art comes from returning to Life
and Nature, and elevating them into ideals.  Life and Nature may
sometimes be used as part of Arts rough material, but before they are of
any real service to art they must be translated into artistic
conventions.  The moment Art surrenders its imaginative medium it
surrenders everything.  As a method Realism is a complete failure, and
the two things that every artist should avoid are modernity of form and
modernity of subject-matter.  To us, who live in the nineteenth century,
any century is a suitable subject for art except our own.  The only
beautiful things are the things that do not concern us.  It is, to have
the pleasure of quoting myself, exactly because Hecuba is nothing to us
that her sorrows are so suitable a motive for a tragedy.  Besides, it is
only the modern that ever becomes old-fashioned.  M. Zola sits down to
give us a picture of the Second Empire.  Who cares for the Second Empire
now?  It is out of date.  Life goes faster than Realism, but Romanticism
is always in front of Life.
