                   Filling the far-seen ocean with a voice.
    The golden bees are silent on the thymy Hymettus; and the knelling
    horn of Auroras love no more shall scatter away the cold twilight on
    the top of Hymettus.  The foreground of our subject is a grassy
    sunburnt bank, broken into swells and hollows like waves (a sort of
    land-breakers), rendered more uneven by many foot-tripping roots and
    stumps of trees stocked untimely by the axe, which are again throwing
    out light-green shoots.  This bank rises rather suddenly on the right
    to a clustering grove, penetrable to no star, at the entrance of
    which sits the stunned Thessalian king, holding between his knees
    that ivory-bright body which was, but an instant agone, parting the
    rough boughs with her smooth forehead, and treading alike on thorns
    and flowers with jealousy-stung footnow helpless, heavy, void of all
    motion, save when the breeze lifts her thick hair in mockery.
    From between the closely-neighboured boles astonished nymphs press
    forward with loud cries
    And deerskin-vested satyrs, crowned with ivy twists, advance;
    And put strange pity in their horned countenance.
    Laelaps lies beneath, and shows by his panting the rapid pace of
    death.  On the other side of the group, Virtuous Love with vans
    dejected holds forth the arrow to an approaching troop of sylvan
    people, fauns, rams, goats, satyrs, and satyr-mothers, pressing their
    children tighter with their fearful hands, who hurry along from the
    left in a sunken path between the foreground and a rocky wall, on
    whose lowest ridge a brook-guardian pours from her urn her
    grief-telling waters.  Above and more remote than the Ephidryad,
    another female, rending her locks, appears among the vine-festooned
    pillars of an unshorn grove.  The centre of the picture is filled by
    shady meadows, sinking down to a river-mouth; beyond is the vast
    strength of the ocean stream, from whose floor the extinguisher of
    stars, rosy Aurora, drives furiously up her brine-washed steeds to
    behold the death-pangs of her rival.
Were this description carefully re-written, it would be quite admirable.
The conception of making a prose poem out of paint is excellent.  Much of
the best modern literature springs from the same aim.  In a very ugly and
sensible age, the arts borrow, not from life, but from each other.
His sympathies, too, were wonderfully varied.  In everything connected
with the stage, for instance, he was always extremely interested, and
strongly upheld the necessity for archaological accuracy in costume and
scene-painting.  In art, he says in one of his essays, whatever is
worth doing at all is worth doing well; and he points out that once we
allow the intrusion of anachronisms, it becomes difficult to say where
the line is to be drawn.  In literature, again, like Lord Beaconsfield on
a famous occasion, he was on the side of the angels.  He was one of the
first to admire Keats and Shelleythe tremulously-sensitive and poetical
Shelley, as he calls him.  His admiration for Wordsworth was sincere and
profound.  He thoroughly appreciated William Blake.  One of the best
copies of the Songs of Innocence and Experience that is now in
existence was wrought specially for him.  He loved Alain Chartier, and
Ronsard, and the Elizabethan dramatists, and Chaucer and Chapman, and
Petrarch.  And to him all the arts were one.  Our critics, he remarks
with much wisdom, seem hardly aware of the identity of the primal seeds
of poetry and painting, nor that any true advancement in the serious
study of one art co-generates a proportionate perfection in the other;
and he says elsewhere that if a man who does not admire Michael Angelo
talks of his love for Milton, he is deceiving either himself or his
listeners.  To his fellow-contributors in the _London Magazine_ he was
always most generous, and praises Barry Cornwall, Allan Cunningham,
Hazlitt, Elton, and Leigh Hunt without anything of the malice of a
friend.  Some of his sketches of Charles Lamb are admirable in their way,
and, with the art of the true comedian, borrow their style from their
subject:
