One can fancy him lying there in the midst of his books and casts and
engravings, a true virtuoso, a subtle connoisseur, turning over his fine
collection of Mare Antonios, and his Turners Liber Studiorum, of which
he was a warm admirer, or examining with a magnifier some of his antique
gems and cameos, the head of Alexander on an onyx of two strata, or
that superb _altissimo relievo_ on cornelian, Jupiter Agiochus.  He was
always a great amateur of engravings, and gives some very useful
suggestions as to the best means of forming a collection.  Indeed, while
fully appreciating modern art, he never lost sight of the importance of
reproductions of the great masterpieces of the past, and all that he says
about the value of plaster casts is quite admirable.
As an art-critic he concerned himself primarily with the complex
impressions produced by a work of art, and certainly the first step in
asthetic criticism is to realise ones own impressions.  He cared nothing
for abstract discussions on the nature of the Beautiful, and the
historical method, which has since yielded such rich fruit, did not
belong to his day, but he never lost sight of the great truth that Arts
first appeal is neither to the intellect nor to the emotions, but purely
to the artistic temperament, and he more than once points out that this
temperament, this taste, as he calls it, being unconsciously guided and
made perfect by frequent contact with the best work, becomes in the end a
form of right judgment.  Of course there are fashions in art just as
there are fashions in dress, and perhaps none of us can ever quite free
ourselves from the influence of custom and the influence of novelty.  He
certainly could not, and he frankly acknowledges how difficult it is to
form any fair estimate of contemporary work.  But, on the whole, his
taste was good and sound.  He admired Turner and Constable at a time when
they were not so much thought of as they are now, and saw that for the
highest landscape art we require more than mere industry and accurate
transcription.  Of Cromes Heath Scene near Norwich he remarks that it
shows how much a subtle observation of the elements, in their wild
moods, does for a most uninteresting flat, and of the popular type of
landscape of his day he says that it is simply an enumeration of hill
and dale, stumps of trees, shrubs, water, meadows, cottages and houses;
little more than topography, a kind of pictorial map-work; in which
rainbows, showers, mists, haloes, large beams shooting through rifted
clouds, storms, starlight, all the most valued materials of the real
painter, are not.  He had a thorough dislike of what is obvious or
commonplace in art, and while he was charmed to entertain Wilkie at
dinner, he cared as little for Sir Davids pictures as he did for Mr.
Crabbes poems.  With the imitative and realistic tendencies of his day
he had no sympathy and he tells us frankly that his great admiration for
Fuseli was largely due to the fact that the little Swiss did not consider
it necessary that an artist should paint only what he sees.  The
qualities that he sought for in a picture were composition, beauty and
dignity of line, richness of colour, and imaginative power.  Upon the
other hand, he was not a doctrinaire.  I hold that no work of art can be
tried otherwise than by laws deduced from itself: whether or not it be
consistent with itself is the question.  This is one of his excellent
aphorisms.  And in criticising painters so different as Landseer and
Martin, Stothard and Etty, he shows that, to use a phrase now classical,
he is trying to see the object as in itself it really is.
