Many men in his position would have preferred the primrose path of
dalliance to the steep heights of duty; but Lord Arthur was too
conscientious to set pleasure above principle.  There was more than mere
passion in his love; and Sybil was to him a symbol of all that is good
and noble.  For a moment he had a natural repugnance against what he was
asked to do, but it soon passed away.  His heart told him that it was not
a sin, but a sacrifice; his reason reminded him that there was no other
course open.  He had to choose between living for himself and living for
others, and terrible though the task laid upon him undoubtedly was, yet
he knew that he must not suffer selfishness to triumph over love.  Sooner
or later we are all called upon to decide on the same issueof us all,
the same question is asked.  To Lord Arthur it came early in lifebefore
his nature had been spoiled by the calculating cynicism of middle-age, or
his heart corroded by the shallow, fashionable egotism of our day, and he
felt no hesitation about doing his duty.  Fortunately also, for him, he
was no mere dreamer, or idle dilettante.  Had he been so, he would have
hesitated, like Hamlet, and let irresolution mar his purpose.  But he was
essentially practical.  Life to him meant action, rather than thought.
He had that rarest of all things, common sense.
The wild, turbid feelings of the previous night had by this time
completely passed away, and it was almost with a sense of shame that he
looked back upon his mad wanderings from street to street, his fierce
emotional agony.  The very sincerity of his sufferings made them seem
unreal to him now.  He wondered how he could have been so foolish as to
rant and rave about the inevitable.  The only question that seemed to
trouble him was, whom to make away with; for he was not blind to the fact
that murder, like the religions of the Pagan world, requires a victim as
well as a priest.  Not being a genius, he had no enemies, and indeed he
felt that this was not the time for the gratification of any personal
pique or dislike, the mission in which he was engaged being one of great
and grave solemnity.  He accordingly made out a list of his friends and
relatives on a sheet of notepaper, and after careful consideration,
decided in favour of Lady Clementina Beauchamp, a dear old lady who lived
in Curzon Street, and was his own second cousin by his mothers side.  He
had always been very fond of Lady Clem, as every one called her, and as
he was very wealthy himself, having come into all Lord Rugbys property
when he came of age, there was no possibility of his deriving any vulgar
monetary advantage by her death.  In fact, the more he thought over the
matter, the more she seemed to him to be just the right person, and,
feeling that any delay would be unfair to Sybil, he determined to make
his arrangements at once.
