Lord Arthur laid down L4, 2s. 6d. on the table, thanked the little German
for his kindness, and, having succeeded in declining an invitation to
meet some Anarchists at a meat-tea on the following Saturday, left the
house and went off to the Park.
For the next two days he was in a state of the greatest excitement, and
on Friday at twelve oclock he drove down to the Buckingham to wait for
news.  All the afternoon the stolid hall-porter kept posting up telegrams
from various parts of the country giving the results of horse-races, the
verdicts in divorce suits, the state of the weather, and the like, while
the tape ticked out wearisome details about an all-night sitting in the
House of Commons, and a small panic on the Stock Exchange.  At four
oclock the evening papers came in, and Lord Arthur disappeared into the
library with the _Pall Mall_, the _St. Jamess_, the _Globe_, and the
_Echo_, to the immense indignation of Colonel Goodchild, who wanted to
read the reports of a speech he had delivered that morning at the Mansion
House, on the subject of South African Missions, and the advisability of
having black Bishops in every province, and for some reason or other had
a strong prejudice against the _Evening News_.  None of the papers,
however, contained even the slightest allusion to Chichester, and Lord
Arthur felt that the attempt must have failed.  It was a terrible blow to
him, and for a time he was quite unnerved.  Herr Winckelkopf, whom he
went to see the next day was full of elaborate apologies, and offered to
supply him with another clock free of charge, or with a case of
nitro-glycerine bombs at cost price.  But he had lost all faith in
explosives, and Herr Winckelkopf himself acknowledged that everything is
so adulterated nowadays, that even dynamite can hardly be got in a pure
condition.  The little German, however, while admitting that something
must have gone wrong with the machinery, was not without hope that the
clock might still go off, and instanced the case of a barometer that he
had once sent to the military Governor at Odessa, which, though timed to
explode in ten days, had not done so for something like three months.  It
was quite true that when it did go off, it merely succeeded in blowing a
housemaid to atoms, the Governor having gone out of town six weeks
before, but at least it showed that dynamite, as a destructive force,
was, when under the control of machinery, a powerful, though a somewhat
unpunctual agent.  Lord Arthur was a little consoled by this reflection,
but even here he was destined to disappointment, for two days afterwards,
as he was going upstairs, the Duchess called him into her boudoir, and
showed him a letter she had just received from the Deanery.
Jane writes charming letters, said the Duchess; you must really read
her last.  It is quite as good as the novels Mudie sends us.
