The thought made him sick with horror.  He turned on his heel, and
hurried on into the night.
Where he went he hardly knew.  He had a dim memory of wandering through a
labyrinth of sordid houses, of being lost in a giant web of sombre
streets, and it was bright dawn when he found himself at last in
Piccadilly Circus.  As he strolled home towards Belgrave Square, he met
the great waggons on their way to Covent Garden.  The white-smocked
carters, with their pleasant sunburnt faces and coarse curly hair, strode
sturdily on, cracking their whips, and calling out now and then to each
other; on the back of a huge grey horse, the leader of a jangling team,
sat a chubby boy, with a bunch of primroses in his battered hat, keeping
tight hold of the mane with his little hands, and laughing; and the great
piles of vegetables looked like masses of jade against the morning sky,
like masses of green jade against the pink petals of some marvellous
rose.  Lord Arthur felt curiously affected, he could not tell why.  There
was something in the dawns delicate loveliness that seemed to him
inexpressibly pathetic, and he thought of all the days that break in
beauty, and that set in storm.  These rustics, too, with their rough,
good-humoured voices, and their nonchalant ways, what a strange London
they saw!  A London free from the sin of night and the smoke of day, a
pallid, ghost-like city, a desolate town of tombs!  He wondered what they
thought of it, and whether they knew anything of its splendour and its
shame, of its fierce, fiery-coloured joys, and its horrible hunger, of
all it makes and mars from morn to eve.  Probably it was to them merely a
mart where they brought their fruits to sell, and where they tarried for
a few hours at most, leaving the streets still silent, the houses still
asleep.  It gave him pleasure to watch them as they went by.  Rude as
they were, with their heavy, hob-nailed shoes, and their awkward gait,
they brought a little of a ready with them.  He felt that they had lived
with Nature, and that she had taught them peace.  He envied them all that
they did not know.
By the time he had reached Belgrave Square the sky was a faint blue, and
the birds were beginning to twitter in the gardens.
CHAPTER III
WHEN Lord Arthur woke it was twelve oclock, and the midday sun was
streaming through the ivory-silk curtains of his room.  He got up and
looked out of the window.  A dim haze of heat was hanging over the great
city, and the roofs of the houses were like dull silver.  In the
flickering green of the square below some children were flitting about
like white butterflies, and the pavement was crowded with people on their
way to the Park.  Never had life seemed lovelier to him, never had the
things of evil seemed more remote.
