THE ART OF ARCHAEOLOGY
Indeed archaeology is only really delightful when transfused into some
form of art.  I have no desire to underrate the services of laborious
scholars, but I feel that the use Keats made of Lempriere's Dictionary is
of far more value to us than Professor Max Muller's treatment of the same
mythology as a disease of language.  Better _Endymion_ than any theory,
however sound, or, as in the present instance, unsound, of an epidemic
among adjectives!  And who does not feel that the chief glory of
Piranesi's book on Vases is that it gave Keats the suggestion for his
'Ode on a Grecian Urn'?  Art, and art only, can make archaeology
beautiful; and the theatric art can use it most directly and most
vividly, for it can combine in one exquisite presentation the illusion of
actual life with the wonder of the unreal world.  But the sixteenth
century was not merely the age of Vitruvius; it was the age of Vecellio
also.  Every nation seems suddenly to have become interested in the dress
of its neighbours.  Europe began to investigate its own clothes, and the
amount of books published on national costumes is quite extraordinary.  At
the beginning of the century the _Nuremberg Chronicle_, with its two
thousand illustrations, reached its fifth edition, and before the century
was over seventeen editions were published of Munster's _Cosmography_.
Besides these two books there were also the works of Michael Colyns, of
Hans Weigel, of Amman, and of Vecellio himself, all of them well
illustrated, some of the drawings in Vecellio being probably from the
hand of Titian.
Nor was it merely from books and treatises that they acquired their
knowledge.  The development of the habit of foreign travel, the increased
commercial intercourse between countries, and the frequency of diplomatic
missions, gave every nation many opportunities of studying the various
forms of contemporary dress.  After the departure from England, for
instance, of the ambassadors from the Czar, the Sultan and the Prince of
Morocco, Henry the Eighth and his friends gave several masques in the
strange attire of their visitors.  Later on London saw, perhaps too
often, the sombre splendour of the Spanish Court, and to Elizabeth came
envoys from all lands, whose dress, Shakespeare tells us, had an
important influence on English costume.--_The Truth of Masks_.
HEROD SUPPLIANT
Non, non, vous ne voulez pas cela.  Vous me dites cela seulement pour me
faire de la peine, parce que je vous ai regardee pendant toute la soiree.
Eh! bien, oui.  Je vous ai regardee pendant toute la soiree.  Votre
beaute m'a trouble.  Votre beaute m'a terriblement trouble, et je vous ai
trop regardee.  Mais je ne le ferai plus.  Il ne faut regarder ni les
choses ni les personnes.  Il ne faut regarder que dans les miroirs.  Car
les miroirs ne nous montrent que des masques . . . Oh!  Oh! du vin! j'ai
soif . . . Salome, Salome, soyons amis.  Enfin, voyez . . . Qu'est-ce que
je voulais dire?  Qu'est-ce que c'etait?  Ah! je m'en souviens! . . .
Salome!  Non, venez plus pres de moi.  J'ai peur que vous ne m'entendiez
pas . . . Salome, vous connaissez mes paons blancs, mes beaux paons
blancs, qui se promenent dans le jardin entre les myrtes et les grands
cypres.  Leurs becs sont dores, et les grains qu'ils mangent sont dores
aussi, et leurs pieds sont teints de pourpre.  La pluie vient quand ils
crient, et quand ils se pavanent la lune se montre au ciel.  Ils vont
deux a deux entre les cypres et les myrtes noirs et chacun a son esclave
pour le soigner.  Quelquefois ils volent a travers les arbres, et
quelquefois ils couchent sur le gazon et autour de l'etang.  Il n'y a pas
dans le monde d'oiseaux si merveilleux.  Il n'y a aucun roi du monde qui
possede des oiseaux aussi merveilleux.  Je suis sur que meme Cesar ne
possede pas d'oiseaux aussi beaux.  Eh bien! je vous donnerai cinquante
de mes paons.  Ils vous suivront partout, et au milieu d'eux vous serez
comme la lune dans un grand nuage blanc . . . Je vous les donnerai tous.
Je n'en ai que cent, et il n'y a aucun roi du monde qui possede des paons
comme les miens, mais je vous les donnerai tous.  Seulement, il faut me
delier de ma parole et ne pas me demander ce que vous m'avez
demande.--_Salome_.
