Within an hour after the astrologers talk with us, Father Peter was
in prison and the money sealed up and in the hands of the officers of
the law. The money was in a bag, and Solomon Isaacs said he had not
touched it since he had counted it; his oath was taken that it was the
same money, and that the amount was eleven hundred and seven ducats.
Father Peter claimed trial by the ecclesiastical court, but our other
priest, Father Adolf, said an ecclesiastical court hadnt jurisdiction
over a suspended priest. The bishop upheld him. That settled it; the
case would go to trial in the civil court. The court would not sit for
some time to come. Wilhelm Meidling would be Father Peters lawyer and
do the best he could, of course, but he told us privately that a weak
case on his side and all the power and prejudice on the other made the
outlook bad.
So Margets new happiness died a quick death. No friends came to
condole with her, and none were expected; an unsigned note withdrew her
invitation to the party. There would be no scholars to take lessons.
How could she support herself? She could remain in the house, for the
mortgage was paid off, though the government and not poor Solomon
Isaacs had the mortgage-money in its grip for the present. Old Ursula,
who was cook, chambermaid, housekeeper, laundress, and everything else
for Father Peter, and had been Margets nurse in earlier years, said
God would provide. But she said that from habit, for she was a good
Christian. She meant to help in the providing, to make sure, if she
could find a way.
We boys wanted to go and see Marget and show friendliness for her, but
our parents were afraid of offending the community and wouldnt let
us. The astrologer was going around inflaming everybody against Father
Peter, and saying he was an abandoned thief and had stolen eleven
hundred and seven gold ducats from him. He said he knew he was a thief
from that fact, for it was exactly the sum he had lost and which Father
Peter pretended he had found.
In the afternoon of the fourth day after the catastrophe old Ursula
appeared at our house and asked for some washing to do, and begged my
mother to keep this secret, to save Margets pride, who would stop this
project if she found it out, yet Marget had not enough to eat and was
growing weak. Ursula was growing weak herself, and showed it; and she
ate of the food that was offered her like a starving person, but could
not be persuaded to carry any home, for Marget would not eat charity
food. She took some clothes down to the stream to wash them, but we saw
from the window that handling the bat was too much for her strength; so
she was called back and a trifle of money offered her, which she was
afraid to take lest Marget should suspect; then she took it, saying she
would explain that she found it in the road. To keep it from being a
lie and damning her soul, she got me to drop it while she watched; then
she went along by there and found it, and exclaimed with surprise and
joy, and picked it up and went her way. Like the rest of the village,
she could tell every-day lies fast enough and without taking any
precautions against fire and brimstone on their account; but this was a
new kind of lie, and it had a dangerous look because she hadnt had any
practice in it. After a weeks practice it wouldnt have given her any
trouble. It is the way we are made.
