I took this very kindly, and sent them word I did so, and that they
should see they had taken the wiser course; that I had an entire
confidence in their fidelity; and that they should never find I would
reproach them with, or use them the worse for, what had past.
I must confess, I was very glad of this submission of the men; for
though, by the measures I had taken, I was satisfied I should conquer
them, and that I was safe from their attempts; yet, carrying it on by
resentment, and doing justice upon the offenders, whatever advantage it
had one way, had this disadvantage in the consequence; viz., that it
would ruin the voyage, for at least half the men were in the plot.
Having thus conquered them by good usage, I thought my next work was to
inquire into the mistakes which had been the foundation of all this: so,
before I parted with the men who had returned to their duty, I told
them, that as I had freely forgiven what was past, so I would keep my
word, that I would never reproach them with it; but that I thought it
was necessary their judgments should be convinced how much they were
imposed upon, as well as their tempers be reduced by my kindness to
them. That I was of the opinion that they had been abused in the account
given them of what I had designed to do, and of the reasons I had to
give for doing it; and I would desire them to let me know afterwards,
whether they had been faithfully informed or not; and whether in their
own judgment, now when they were freed from the prepossessions they were
under, they could object anything against it or no.
This I did with respect to the other men whom I had made prisoners in
the steerage, whom I had the same design to be kind to as I had to
these; but upon whom I resolved to work this way, because, after all, I
might have this work to do over again, if I should meet with any
disappointment or miscarriage in the voyage; or especially, if we should
be put to any difficulties or distresses in the pursuing it.
In order to this I caused the voyage itself, and the reasons of it, the
nature of the trade I was to carry on by it, the pursuit of it to the
South Seas, and, in a word, everything just as we had argued and settled
it in the great cabin, to be put into writing and read to them.
The fellows, every one of them, declared they were fully satisfied in
the voyage itself, and that my reasons for it were perfectly good; and
that they had received a quite different account of it; as that I would
carry them into the island of the Moluccas, which was the most unhealthy
part of the East Indies; that I would go away to the south for new
discoveries; and that I would go away thence to the South Seas; which
was a voyage of such a length, that no ship could victual for; that it
was impossible to carry fresh water such a length; and, in a word, that
it was a voyage that would destroy us all.
