We called our council several times, to consider what we should do, for
we did but drive to leeward the longer we strove with it; the gale held
still on, and, to our apprehensions, it was set in; blowing like a kind
of monsoon, or trade-wind, though in those latitudes I know there is no
such thing properly called, as a trade-wind.
We tried, the wind abating, to beat up again to the north, and we did
so; but it was by running a great way to the east; and once, I believe,
we were in the longitude of St. Helena, though so far south, but it cost
us infinite labour, and near six weeks' time. At length we made the
coast, and arrived again at the Port of St. Julian the 20th of June,
which, by the way, is the depth of their winter.
Here we resolved to lay up for the winter, and not attempt to go so far
south again at that time of the year, but our eager desire of pursuing
our voyage prevailed, and we put out to sea again, having taken in fresh
provisions, such as are to be had there; that is to say, seals,
penguins, and such like, and with this recruit we put to sea, I say, a
second time.
We had this time worse luck than we had before; for, the wind setting in
at south-west, blew a storm, and drove us with such force away to sea
eastward, that we were never able to make any way to the southward at
all, but were carried away with a continued storm of wind, from the same
corner, or near it. Our pilot, or master, as we called him, finding
himself often obliged to go away before it, which kept us out long at
sea, and drove us far to the north-east, eastward, that he advised us to
stand away for the Cape of Good Hope; and accordingly we did so, and
arrived there the last day of July.
We were now disheartened indeed, and I began to revive my proposal of
going to the East Indies, as I at first proposed; and to answer the
objection which they then made against it, as being against the nature
of trade, and that we had nothing on board but European goods, which
were not fitted for the East Indies, where money only was suitable to
the market we were to make; I say, to answer this objection, I told them
I would engage that I would sell our whole cargo at the Philippine
Islands as well as on the coast of America; for that those islands being
Spanish, our disguise of being French would serve us as well at the
Philippines, as it would in New Spain; and with this particular
advantage, that we should sell here for four times the value we should
on the coast of Chili, or Peru; and that, when we had done, we could
load our ship again there, or in other places in the Indies, with such
goods as would come to a good market again in New Spain.
