And now I was preparing to visit _Italy_, where some of the _Irish_
Forces were then employ'd, and my Company expected me; but before I set
out, I had a mind to inform my self better of a certain Report wisper'd
at _St. Germains_, That in a little Time King _James_ would make another
Push, and that a Descent in _England_ was certainly in Agitation. Now I
was at a Loss how to be truly inform'd of this Matter; the King's Fleet
rendevouzing upon the Coast of _Normandy_, and several Battalions
marching that way, look'd something like a Descent, but this was not
sufficient to convince me, who knew that such Alarms were often given
upon a quite different Score, to what the Generality of People had in
View. However, the _French_ laid strong Colours upon this Preparative;
first they gave out, That they had bribed most of the _English_ Fleet,
so there wou'd be no Danger from that Quarter nor Body to oppose the
Descent; again, King _James_ set forth a solemn Manifesto, inviting all
his Subjects to rise and take Arms, granting an Amnesty only to such as
were specify'd in his Proclamation, and to put the last Stroke to this
Master-piece of Policy; the King himself was perswaded to appear at the
Head of some Troops upon the Coast of _Normandy_. The Pill thus guilded,
was swallow'd by every Body; I own I was my self charm'd with the Beauty
of the Project, and it look'd so like the dawning of a Restoration, that
I was resolv'd to make Interest with our General, that I might not
return to my Company upon the Borders of _Italy_; but rather accompany
my Prince, and contribute more immediately to conclude the happy Work.
While these Matters were in Agitation, I had an Invitation to see the
Palace and Gardens of St. _Clou_, from an old Acquaintance, whom I knew
an Officer upon the _Rhine_, but now was one of the Duke of _Orlean_'s
Secretaries. This Gentleman, as we walk'd in St. _Clou_'s Gardens, being
inquisitive how I had spent my Time since our last parting, and how my
Affairs stood at present, I gave him a short Narration of my Travels and
Actions, telling him I was now a Captain of Foot, and had a Promise of a
Lieutenant Colonels Commission the next Vacancy, but that I design'd to
throw up my Pretensions, and accompany King _James_. The Gentleman
surpriz'd at what I said, I suppose Sir, said he, you must have a fair
Prospect of a Place at Court to put it at Ballance with a Lieutenant
Colonels Commission, and then turning his Discourse into Raillery, or
perhaps says he, you are so taken with the beautiful Enclosures of
_Normandy_, as to think a Tour in that Country will recompence all other
Losses. No Sir, said I, but I am in hopes, that as I am one who have
been useful to his Majesty in several Capacities, so being near his
Person in the Descent, if it prove Successful, as no Body seems to
question, so I shall be more in his Majesty's Eye, and in fairer
Prospect of climbing, than if I were doing him Service at a Distance.
Well, Sir, said he, I am sorry our former Intimacy does oblige me to use
the Freedom of disabusing you of this vulgar Error of most of King
_James_'s Subjects. I cannot blame them for being desirous to return
Home, but they are so Infatuated in their Zeal that way, that they
imagine every Step our Monarch takes, tends immediately towards their
Master's Restoration; believe me, old Friend, Kings have commonly long
Heads, and 'tis well known _Lewis_ XIV has led all _Europe_ through so
many Politick Mazes for these Forty or Fifty Years, that he never lets
any Body know he is doing a Thing till 'tis in a manner done. All
Masters in Politicks look one way and Row another. I own the
Preparatives upon the Coast of _Normandy_ look like a Descent, but there
are false Attacks upon Kingdoms as well as upon Towns: You are not
Ignorant that King _William_ is now at the Head of a powerful Army in
_Flanders_, and that our King is not so well provided there as he
expected; Now if King _William_ receives the Reinforcement he expects
out of _England_ and _Scotland_, it will give him that Superiority, that
_France_ will not be able to make the last stand on that Quarter; so
that 'tis no Secret for us at _Versailles_, that all this Alarm of a
Descent upon _England_, is a meer blind to make a Diversion, and to
hinder the Transportation of the _British_ Forces. But you Jacobites and
_English_ are so ragingly dispos'd, to give every Thing a favourable
turn towards King _James_'s Cause, that I have frequently observ'd,
there can scare be two Men of War sent out of any Port of _France_, let
it be towards the _Indies, Mediterranean_, or other Places, but you make
a Descent of it. But as I insinuated Sir, I am glad I have the
Opportunity to set you to Rights as to this Affair, that you may not
risque a seeming promising Fortune, by catching a Shadow. The Thoughts
of having King _James_ made such a Tool of, would not permit me
immediately to be civil to the Gentleman, and return him Thanks for the
seasonable Advice; however, after I had recollected my self, I did my
Duty in that Respect: But the Idea he gave me of his Masters Politicks
left a Deep Resentment on my Soul. Afterwards, as I return'd to _Paris_,
I ruminated upon this Subject, and I saw a thousand Contradictions and
Improbabilities in the pretended Descent. The Troops design'd for this
Business was very few, and the worst in _France_; the King's own
Subjects were not to be employ'd, unless a few Straglers; besides there
were no Transportships, nor in fine, any Thing that look'd like an
Attempt to Conquer three Potent Kingdoms. King _William_ had in a
manner the whole Kingdom in his Design at his Descent, he also had the
_English_ Army secur'd to him, he brought over 15000 Veterans in a Fleet
of 600 Sail, but this sham Descent was destitute of all these
Advantages. I don't question but _Lewis_ XIV, as he proposed an End in
this Politick Amusement, so it answer'd accordingly; but as for poor
King _James_, I know no Benefit either He or his Friends reap'd from it,
besides the Fatigue of a _Norman_ Progress, and having all the Jacobites
in _England_ imprison'd, fin'd, and plunder'd; so that to gain a few
Acres of Land to _France_, _England_ must be exasperated to let all the
Laws loose upon both Protestants and Roman Catholicks that were
Well-wishers to King _James_. And yet though the French Court obtain'd
their Ends in one Respect, they suffer'd from the Hand of Providence in
another. I wou'd not be thought to pry with too much Curiosity into the
hidden Paths of Providence, otherwise I should be apt to judge that the
Destruction of the _French_ Fleet at the _Hague_, look'd somewhat like a
Judgment from Heaven for amusing an unfortunate Prince with a false
Prospect of Happiness, and yet that loss has been sometimes objected to
King _James_, as marr'd upon his Account, so dextrous are the _French_
in turning Things to their own Credit.
