This kind of Management so disconcerted all the Pretenders Party who
then govern'd the Queen, that they flew all in Pieces, astonish'd not to
find the _French_ insist upon the Pretender's Right, as they had laid
the Design. They inform against one another, and by their unseasonable
and discontinued Animosities threw the Queen into an Agony of Fear,
which afterwards usher'd in the Agony of Death. In the mean Time
_France_ smil'd at the disorder, and hugg'd themselves in the noble
Project of having lost every Battle in that Bloody War, and yet obtain'd
what they fought for, as they had always been Victorious, whilst the
poor Pretender was so little consider'd by _France_, that tho' the
Ministry was ready to assert his Title, yet _France_ wav'd it and
subscrib'd to his Banishment, least that Affair should ruin the Main
Project.
But what I am in the next place going to observe, will make clear that
_France_ was not only unwilling to be active in assisting the Pretender,
but that they were scrupulous upon the Point, and made it their Business
to disswade him from any such Attempt. I remember I was my self in
_Lorain_, when the News of the Queen's Decease was brought the Pretender
by a Servant of _L.P._ He was no Stranger to the Interest he had just
before with the Ministry, who still were most of 'em in Power. A Ship
lay ready for him to waft him over, but he was arrested in his Journey
by the _French_ King's Orders, and threatened by _M.T._ with the
Bastile, if he did not return forthwith to _Lorain_, otherwise
considering the After-acts of the Gentlemen then in Play, he would very
probably been at St. _James_'s several Days before King _George_ left
his Palace at _Hanover_. This was so shocking a Treatment from the grand
Protector of distress'd Monarchs, that the Queen Mother then at
_Chalonois_ said this was a Key to all the mask Politics which had been
acting 27 Years, and the very Thought of it threw her into such a
Consternation, that she has never since recover'd it. I know 'tis
pretended that _Lewis_ XIV was now grown more scrupulous than formerly;
he had been in sticking to the Letter of Treaties. I shall not dispute
whether passing through the Country without assisting the Pretender,
cou'd be wrested by any Logick to be acting in his Favour. But if
_Lewis_ XIV, was scrupulous, he ought to have been so when he grew
nearer his End; for 'tis pretended by those who are willing to represent
him as always a Friend to King _James_, that in despute of the Articles
of _Utrecht_, he came into the Measures of the Duke of _Ormond_, Lord
_Bolinbroke_, the Earl of _Mar_, &c. and had not Death in the mean time
taken him off, wou'd have furnish'd 'em with all Things necessary to
have made a Head against King _George_. This, I say, is confidently
reported by _Lewis_ XIV's Admirers. But then they will have the
inconsistancy to account for, why he shou'd not scruple to raise an Army
to succour the Pretender, who a little before scrupled to let him pass'd
with a Couple of Servants, through his Country. For my own Part I am
enclin'd to believe he never was so much his Friend, but died as he
cou'd, a juggler, and that if he sign'd any thing in form of the late
Insurrection 'twas in one of his delirious Fits which were not
infrequent in his latter Years. If the Regent be a just Interpreter of
his Actions.
