It was observable after this Peregrination, that King _James_ began to
ride with a very loose Rein, and throwing the Bridle in the Neck,
managed his Concerns with a great deal of Indifference. He saw clearly
how fatal a Thing it was for one King to fall into the Hands of another;
and that under the plausible Cloak of Hospitality, and Royal Protection,
a Person might be lull'd a Sleep in the Arms of an Enslaver. When
Princes are detain'd Prisoners, they generally wear all the Symptoms of
their Royalty besides that of Freedom, which cannot be distinguish'd so
much by the Eye as, the Judgment; and if some of King _James_'s Subjects
regarded their Master with the same Compassion at the Castle of St.
_Germains_ as if he had been in the _Bastile_, there was very little
Difference to be found besides the largeness of the Enclosure. And if
King _James_ has not often been heard to let drop Expressions as if he
regarded himself no otherwise than a Politick Prisoner, I am very much
misinform'd by those who constantly attended his Person. The denying him
his own Guards, the number of Spies he had upon all his Actions, the
Uneasiness he often shew'd that he cou'd enjoy no Privacy, are
Circumstances that smell very strong of a Prison. However, the Pretence
of protecting a Person in Distress, was a noble Sham, and so well
dress'd up, that the Generallity ne'er look'd through the Disguise. The
Salary allow'd him, and frequent Protestations of standing by him with
unpolitick Heads, were look'd upon as undeniable Proofs of _Lewis_ XIV.'
Sincerity; but those who were better acquainted with _French_
Stratagems, easily pull'd off the Vizard. King _James_ fell into the
Hands of _France_, and was a rich Opportunity in the _French_ Hands,
from whence they might raise a Thousand Advantages. He was too great a
Treasure to be parted with only upon good Terms. A Tool no less useful
to make a Diversion in time of War, than to obtain a beneficial Article
at the Conclusion of Peace; and if upon the Foot of this Maxim he was
not thrown into one side of the Scales at the Peace of _Reswick_, when
_France_ cou'd have no other Motive but being gratified with an
Equivalent for the disclaim of his Title, I shall own my self a Stranger
to the Spirit and Design of that Treaty. Two things surpris'd all
_Europe_ upon that Treaty, the first was, that _France_ should be so
inclinable to hearken to a Peace after a War, in which he had always
been successful. The other was, that no regard shou'd be had to King
_James_, not so much as to be admitted to speak, though _France_
pretended to have undertaken the War meerly upon his Account, and that
his Quarrel seem'd to be the only Circumstance to justify his Conduct in
the War. The Hopes of gaining Time to work his Ends upon _Spain_, will
easily account for his forwardness in clapping up a Peace, and giving up
more Towns than he had been Master of by the War; for thus like a
through pac'd Politician, he humbled himself by little Condescensions to
the Feet of the Allies, and sacrifices these Excrescencies of his Glory,
in hopes very speedily to make good all such Deficiences by the larger
Acquisition of _Spain_: But nothing will answer the other Part of
People's Expectations. _Lewis_ XIV had often made solemn Protestations,
that as the War was principally undertaking to do right to K. _James_,
so Peace should not be made unless he was consider'd; and unless it were
a few near the Person of _Lewis_ XIV who were in the Secret concerning
the Design upon _Spain_, there was not a Man in _France_ but who had a
better Opinion of their Monarch's Honour, than to think he wou'd desert
King _James_ the Second's Cause in so scandalous a Manner, as not to
admit his Plenipotentiaries to speak at _Reswick_: Yes, so undefensible
was the Conduct of _France_ upon this Head, that they commonly own'd
they were asham'd to look any that belong to the Court of St. _Germains_
in the Face, since all their lofty Protestations for restoring King
_James_ ended in the self-ended Design of securing the _Spanish_
Monarchy in the House of _Bourbon_. And thus poor King _James_ had
implicitely devoted himself to the _French_ King's Politicks, first by
suffering himself to be led blindfolded, and after he had pull'd off the
Veil, (though some will have it he died with the Film upon his Eyes)
caress'd the Opportunity, and made it a principal Ingredient among those
Misfortunes which he was in hopes to raise his Merits hereafter, and if
he question'd the _French_ King's Sincerity, he either durst not tell
him, or scrupled to publish his Insincerity.
