The Prince of _Orange_ was hereupon leaving the Army in great Disgust,
till prevail'd upon by the Count _de Montery_, for the general Safety,
to recede from that Resolution. However, seeing no likelihood of any
Thing further to be done, while _Souches_ was in Command, he resolv'd
upon a Post of more Action, though more dangerous; wherefore ordering
ten Thousand Men to march before, he himself soon after foliow'd to the
Siege of _Grave_.
The _Grave_, a strong Place, and of the first Moment to the
_Hollanders_, had been block'd up by the _Dutch_ Forces all the Summer;
the Prince of _Orange_ therefore leaving the main Army under Prince
_Waldeck_ at _Ghent_, follow'd the Detachment he had made for the Siege
of that important Place, resolving to purchase it at any Rate. On his
Arrival before it, Things began to find new Motion; and as they were
carried on with the utmost Application and Fury, the Besieged found
themselves, in a little Time, oblig'd to change their haughty Summer
Note for one more suitable to the Season.
The Prince, from his first coming, having kept those within hotly ply'd
with Ball, both from Cannon and Mortars, Monsieur _Chamilly_, the
Governor, after a few Days, being weary of such warm Work, desired to
capitulate; upon which Hostages were exchanged, and Articles agreed on
next Morning. Pursuant to which, the Garrison march'd out with Drums
beating and Colours flying, two Days after, and were conducted to
_Charleroy_.
By the taking this Place, which made the Prince of _Orange_ the more
earnest upon it, the _French_ were wholly expell'd their last Year's
astonishing Conquests in _Holland_. And yet there was another
Consideration, that render'd the Surrender of it much more considerable.
For the _French_ being sensible of the great Strength of this Place, had
there deposited all their Cannon and Ammunition, taken from their other
Conquests in _Holland_, which they never were able to remove or carry
off, with tolerable Prospect of Safety, after that Prince's Army first
took the Field.
The Enemy being march'd out, the Prince enter'd the Town, and
immediately order'd public Thanksgivings for its happy Reduction. Then
having appointed a Governor, and left a sufficient Garrison, he put an
End to that Campaign, and return'd to the _Hague_, where he had not been
long before he fell ill of the Small Pox. The Consternation this threw
the whole Country into, is not to be express'd; Any one that had seen it
would have thought, that the _French_ had made another Inundation
greater than the former. But when the Danger was over, their Joy and
Satisfaction, for his Recovery, was equally beyond Expression.
The Year 1675 yielded very little remarkable in our Army. _Limburgh_ was
besieged by the _French_, under the Command of the Duke of _Enguien_,
which the Prince of _Orange_ having Intelligence of, immediately
decamp'd from his fine Camp at _Bethlem_, near _Louvain_, in order to
raise the Siege. But as we were on a full March for that purpose, and
had already reach'd _Ruremond_, Word was brought, that the Place had
surrender'd the Day before. Upon which Advice, the Prince, after a short
Halt, made his little Army (for it consisted not of more than thirty
Thousand Men) march back to _Brabant_. Nothing of moment, after this,
occurr'd all that Campaign.
