Nor has it been such disadvantage to him that this plan or scheme of a
new modell'd religion would not go down at _Rome_, and that the
Inquisition damn'd it with Bell, Book and Candle; distance of place
serv'd his new allies, the missionaries, in the stead of a protection
from the Inquisition; and now and then a rich present well plac'd found
them friends in the congregation it self; and where any Nuncio with his
impudent zeal pretended to take such a long voyage to oppose them,
_Satan_ took care to get him sent back _re infecta_, or inspir'd the
million to move him off the premisses, by methods of their own (that is
to say, being interpreted) to _murther him_.
Thus the mission has in itself been truly _devilish_, and the Devil has
interested himself in the planting the christian religion in _China_.
The influence _the Devil_ has in the Politicks of mankind, is another
especial part of his history, and would require, if it were possible, a
very exact description; but here we shall necessarily be obliged to
inquire so nicely into the Arcana of circumstances, and unlock the
cabinets of state in so many courts, canvass the councils of ministers
and the conduct of princes so fully, and expose them so much, that it
may, perhaps, make a combustion among the great politicians abroad; and
in doing that we may come so near home too, that tho' personal safety
and prudentials forbid our medling with our own country, we may be taken
in a double entendre, and fall unpitied for being only suspected of
touching truths that are so tender, whether we are guilty or no; on
these accounts I must meddle the less with that part, at least for the
present.
Be it that the Devil has had a share in some of the late councils of
_Europe_, influencing them this way or that way, to his own advantage,
what is it to us? For example, What if he has had any concern in the
late affair of _Thorn_? What need we put it upon him, seeing his
confederates the _Jesuites_ with the _Assessorial_ tribunal of _Poland_
take it upon themselves? I shall leave that part to the issue of time. I
wish it were as easy to persuade the world that he had no hand in
bringing the injur'd Protestants to leave the justice due to the cries
of protestant blood to the arbitrament of a popish power, who dare say
that _the Devil_ must be in it, if justice should be obtain'd that way:
I should rather say, _the Devil_ is in it, or else it would never be
expected.
It occurs next to enquire from the premisses, whether _the Devil_ has
more influence or less in the affairs of the world now, than he had in
former ages; and this will depend upon comparing, as we go along, his
methods and way of working in past times, and the modern politicks by
which he acts in our days; with the differing reception which he has met
with among the men of such distant ages.
