All this, though no Man is more capable of the Enquiry than this
Gentleman, yet to the Demonstration of the thing, amounts to no more
than what we had before, and still leaves it as Abstruse and Cloudy to
our Understanding as ever.
Not but that I think my self bound in Duty to Science in General, to pay
a just Debt to the Excellency of Philosophical Study, in which I am a
meer Junior, and hardly any more than an Admirer; and therefore I cannot
but allow that the Demonstrations made of Rarefaction and Dilatation are
extraordinary; and that by Fire and Water Wind may be rais'd in a close
Room, as the Lord _Verulam_ made Experiment in the Case of his Feathers.
But that therefore all the Causes of Wind are from the Influences of the
Sun upon vaporous Matter first Exhal'd, which being Dilated are oblig'd
to possess themselves of more Space than before, and consequently make
the Particles fly before them; this does not seem to be a sufficient
Demonstration of Wind: for this, to my weak Apprehension, would rather
make a Blow like Gun-Powder than a rushing forward; at best this is
indeed a probable Conjecture, but admits not of Demonstration equal to
other Phaenomena in Nature.
And this is all I am upon, _viz._ That this Case has not equal Proofs of
the Natural Causes of it that we meet with in other Cases: The Scripture
seems to confirm this, when it says in one Place, _He holds the Wind in
his Hand_; as if he should mean, Other things are left to the Common
Discoveries of Natural Inquiry, but this is a thing he holds in his own
Hand, and has conceal'd it from the Search of the most Diligent and
Piercing Understanding: This is further confirm'd by the Words of our
Saviour, _The Wind blows where it listeth, and thou hearest the Sound
thereof, but knowest not whence it cometh_; 'tis plainly express'd to
signify that the Causes of the Wind are not equally discover'd by
Natural Enquiry as the rest of Nature is.
If I would carry this Matter on, and travel into the Seas, and Mountains
of _America_, where the Mansones, the Trade-Winds, the Sea-Breezes, and
such Winds as we have little Knowledge of, are more common; it would yet
more plainly appear, _That we hear the Sound, but know not from whence
they come._
Nor is the Cause of their Motion parallel to the Surface of the Earth,
a less Mystery than their real Original, or the Difficulty of their
Generation: and though some People have been forward to prove the
Gravity of the Particles must cause the Motion to be oblique; 'tis plain
it must be very little so, or else Navigation would be impracticable,
and in extroardinary Cases where the Pressure above is perpendicular, it
has been fatal to Ships, Houses, _&c._ and would have terrible Effects
in the World, if it should more frequently be so.
