Let me think a little, I said: and for some minutes we walked on in
silence, while, pained to the heart at seeing the bitter trial that had
come upon this pure and gentle soul, I strove in vain to see my way
through the tangled skein of conflicting motives.
If she loves him truly, (I seemed at last to grasp the clue to the
problem) is not _that_, for her, the voice of God? May she not hope
that she is sent to him, even as Ananias was sent to Saul in his
blindness, that he may receive his sight? Once more I seemed to hear
Arthur whispering _What knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save
thy husband?_ and I broke the silence with the words If you still love
him truly
I do _not_! she hastily interrupted. At leastnot in _that_ way. I
_believe_ I loved him when I promised; but I was very young: it is hard
to know. But, whatever the feeling was, it is dead _now_. The motive on
_his_ side is Love: on _mine_ it isDuty!
Again there was a long silence. The whole skein of thought was tangled
worse than ever. This time _she_ broke the silence. Dont misunderstand
me! she said. When I said my heart was not _his_, I did not mean it
was any one elses! At present I feel bound to _him_; and, till I know I
am absolutely free, in the sight of God, to love any other than him,
Ill never even _think_ of any one elsein _that_ way, I mean. I would
die sooner! I had never imagined my gentle friend capable of such
passionate utterances.
I ventured on no further remark until we had nearly arrived at the
Hall-gate; but, the longer I reflected, the clearer it became to me that
no call of Duty demanded the sacrificepossibly of the happiness of a
lifewhich she seemed ready to make. I tried to make this clear to _her_
also, adding some warnings on the dangers that surely awaited a union in
which mutual love was wanting. The only argument for it, worth
considering, I said in conclusion, seems to be his supposed
_reluctance_ in releasing you from your promise. I have tried to give to
that argument its _full_ weight, and my conclusion is that it does _not_
affect the rights of the case, or invalidate the release he has given
you. My belief is that you are _entirely_ free to act as _now_ seems
right.
I am _very_ grateful to you, she said earnestly. Believe it, please!
I cant put it into proper words! and the subject was dropped by
mutual consent: and I only learned, long afterwards, that our discussion
had really served to dispel the doubts that had harassed her so long.
We parted at the Hall-gate, and I found Arthur eagerly awaiting my
arrival; and, before we parted for the night, I had heard the whole
storyhow he had put off his journey from day to day, feeling that he
_could_ not go away from the place till his fate had been irrevocably
settled by the wedding taking place: how the preparations for the
wedding, and the excitement in the neighbourhood, had suddenly come to
an end, and he had learned (from Major Lindon, who called to wish him
good-bye) that the engagement had been broken off by mutual consent: how
he had instantly abandoned all his plans for going abroad, and had
decided to stay on at Elveston, for a year or two at any rate, till his
newly-awakened hopes should prove true or false; and how, since that
memorable day, he had avoided all meetings with Lady Muriel, fearing to
betray his feelings before he had had any sufficient evidence as to how
she regarded him. But it is nearly six weeks since all that happened,
he said in conclusion, and we can meet in the ordinary way, now, with
no need for any painful allusions. I would have written to tell you all
this: only I kept hoping from day to day, thatthat there would be
_more_ to tell!
