That, in the room of all this, our cargo being well bought and well
sorted, would come to the Philippine Islands at once, without any
landing or re-landing, and without any of all the additions of charge to
the first cost, as those by the way of New Spain had upon them; so that,
if we were to sell them at the Philippine Islands a hundred per cent.
cheaper than the Spaniards usually sold, yet we should get abundantly
more than we could on the coast of Peru, though we had been allowed a
free trade there.
That there were but two objections to this advantage, and these were,
our liberty of trading, and whether the place would consume the quantity
of goods we had; and to this I had much to answer. First, that it was
well known at the Philippine Isles, that the kings of France and Spain
were united firmly together; that the king of Spain had allowed the king
of France's subjects a free trade in his American dominions, and
consequently, that it would not be denied there; but, on the other hand,
that, if it was denied by the governor, yet there would be room to find
out a trade with the inhabitants, and especially with the Chinese and
Japan merchants, who were always there, which trade the governor could
not prevent; and thus we could not fear a market for all our cargo, if
it was much greater than it was.
That as to the returns, we had the advantage either way: for, first, we
should be sure to receive a great part of the price of our goods in
Chinese or Japan gold and silver, or in pieces of eight; or, if we
thought fit to trade another way, we might take on board such a quantity
of China damasks, and other wrought silks, muslins and chintz, China
ware, and Japan ware; all which, would be immediately sold in America;
that we should carry a cargo of these goods to New Spain, infinitely to
our advantage, being the same cargo which the four great Acapulco ships
carry back with them every year: That when we had gone to the South Seas
with this cargo, of which we knew we should make a good market, we had
nothing to do but to come back, if we thought fit, to the East Indies
again, where we might load for England or Flanders such goods as we
thought proper; or, if we did not think fit to take so great a run, we
might go away to the south, and round by Cape Horn into the Atlantic
Ocean, and perfect those discoveries, which we made part of in the
beginning of our voyage.
This was so clear a scheme of trade, that he seemed surprised with it,
and fully satisfied in every part of it. But the captain then objected
against the length of the voyage to the South Seas from the Philippines,
and raised several scruples about the latitude which we should keep in
such a voyage; that we should not be able to carry any provisions which
we could take on board in those hot countries, that would keep for so
long a run, and several other difficulties; to all which I made answer,
that when we had sold our cargo at the Philippines, and found our
advantages there to answer our desires, I would not oppose our returning
from thence directly to England if they found it needful; or, if they
thought a farther adventure would not answer the risks we were to expect
in it, we would never have any dispute about that.
