"Sister, daughter, sons--and Balbus--," the old man began, so nervously,
that Balbus put in a gentle "Hear, hear!" while Hugh drummed on the
table with his fists. This disconcerted the unpractised orator.
"Sister--" he began again, then paused a moment, moved the bag to the
other side, and went on with a rush, "I mean--this being--a critical
occasion--more or less--being the year when one of my sons comes of
age--" he paused again in some confusion, having evidently got into the
middle of his speech sooner than he intended: but it was too late to go
back. "Hear, hear!" cried Balbus. "Quite so," said the old gentleman,
recovering his self-possession a little: "when first I began this annual
custom--my friend Balbus will correct me if I am wrong--" (Hugh
whispered "with a strap!" but nobody heard him except Lambert, who only
frowned and shook his head at him) "--this annual custom of giving each
of my sons as many guineas as would represent his age--it was a critical
time--so Balbus informed me--as the ages of two of you were together
equal to that of the third--so on that occasion I made a speech----" He
paused so long that Balbus thought it well to come to the rescue with
the words "It was a most----" but the old man checked him with a warning
look: "yes, made a speech," he repeated. "A few years after that, Balbus
pointed out--I say pointed out--" ("Hear, hear"! cried Balbus. "Quite
so," said the grateful old man.) "--that it was _another_ critical
occasion. The ages of two of you were together _double_ that of the
third. So I made another speech--another speech. And now again it's a
critical occasion--so Balbus says--and I am making----" (Here Mad
Mathesis pointedly referred to her watch) "all the haste I can!" the old
man cried, with wonderful presence of mind. "Indeed, sister, I'm coming
to the point now! The number of years that have passed since that first
occasion is just two-thirds of the number of guineas I then gave you.
Now, my boys, calculate your ages from the _data_, and you shall have
the money!"
"But we _know_ our ages!" cried Hugh.
"Silence, sir!" thundered the old man, rising to his full height (he was
exactly five-foot five) in his indignation. "I say you must use the
_data_ only! You mustn't even assume _which_ it is that comes of age!"
He clutched the bag as he spoke, and with tottering steps (it was about
as much as he could do to carry it) he left the room.
"And _you_ shall have a similar _cadeau_," the old lady whispered to her
niece, "when you've calculated that percentage!" And she followed her
brother.
Nothing could exceed the solemnity with which the old couple had risen
from the table, and yet was it--was it a _grin_ with which the father
turned away from his unhappy sons? Could it be--could it be a _wink_
with which the aunt abandoned her despairing niece? And were those--were
those sounds of suppressed _chuckling_ which floated into the room, just
before Balbus (who had followed them out) closed the door? Surely not:
and yet the butler told the cook--but no, that was merely idle gossip,
and I will not repeat it.
