What does she mean! said Mr. Gradgrind.  Back in a minute?  Its more
than a mile off.
Before Mr. Bounderby could reply, a young man appeared at the door, and
introducing himself with the words, By your leaves, gentlemen! walked
in with his hands in his pockets.  His face, close-shaven, thin, and
sallow, was shaded by a great quantity of dark hair, brushed into a roll
all round his head, and parted up the centre.  His legs were very robust,
but shorter than legs of good proportions should have been.  His chest
and back were as much too broad, as his legs were too short.  He was
dressed in a Newmarket coat and tight-fitting trousers; wore a shawl
round his neck; smelt of lamp-oil, straw, orange-peel, horses provender,
and sawdust; and looked a most remarkable sort of Centaur, compounded of
the stable and the play-house.  Where the one began, and the other ended,
nobody could have told with any precision.  This gentleman was mentioned
in the bills of the day as Mr. E. W. B. Childers, so justly celebrated
for his daring vaulting act as the Wild Huntsman of the North American
Prairies; in which popular performance, a diminutive boy with an old
face, who now accompanied him, assisted as his infant son: being carried
upside down over his fathers shoulder, by one foot, and held by the
crown of his head, heels upwards, in the palm of his fathers hand,
according to the violent paternal manner in which wild huntsmen may be
observed to fondle their offspring.  Made up with curls, wreaths, wings,
white bismuth, and carmine, this hopeful young person soared into so
pleasing a Cupid as to constitute the chief delight of the maternal part
of the spectators; but in private, where his characteristics were a
precocious cutaway coat and an extremely gruff voice, he became of the
Turf, turfy.
By your leaves, gentlemen, said Mr. E. W. B. Childers, glancing round
the room.  It was you, I believe, that were wishing to see Jupe!
It was, said Mr. Gradgrind.  His daughter has gone to fetch him, but I
cant wait; therefore, if you please, I will leave a message for him with
you.
You see, my friend, Mr. Bounderby put in, we are the kind of people
who know the value of time, and you are the kind of people who dont know
the value of time.
I have not, retorted Mr. Childers, after surveying him from head to
foot, the honour of knowing _you_,but if you mean that you can make
more money of your time than I can of mine, I should judge from your
appearance, that you are about right.
And when you have made it, you can keep it too, I should think, said
Cupid.
Kidderminster, stow that! said Mr. Childers.  (Master Kidderminster was
Cupids mortal name.)
What does he come here cheeking us for, then? cried Master
Kidderminster, showing a very irascible temperament.  If you want to
cheek us, pay your ochre at the doors and take it out.
