Now, good people all, said he, this is wanton waste of time.  Let the
girl understand the fact.  Let her take it from me, if you like, who have
been run away from, myself.  Here, whats your name!  Your father has
abscondeddeserted youand you mustnt expect to see him again as long as
you live.
They cared so little for plain Fact, these people, and were in that
advanced state of degeneracy on the subject, that instead of being
impressed by the speakers strong common sense, they took it in
extraordinary dudgeon.  The men muttered Shame! and the women Brute!
and Sleary, in some haste, communicated the following hint, apart to Mr.
Bounderby.
I tell you what, Thquire.  To thpeak plain to you, my opinion ith that
you had better cut it thort, and drop it.  Theyre a very good naturd
people, my people, but theyre accuthtomed to be quick in their
movementh; and if you dont act upon my advithe, Im damned if I dont
believe theyll pith you out o winder.
Mr. Bounderby being restrained by this mild suggestion, Mr. Gradgrind
found an opening for his eminently practical exposition of the subject.
It is of no moment, said he, whether this person is to be expected
back at any time, or the contrary.  He is gone away, and there is no
present expectation of his return.  That, I believe, is agreed on all
hands.
Thath agreed, Thquire.  Thick to that!  From Sleary.
Well then.  I, who came here to inform the father of the poor girl,
Jupe, that she could not be received at the school any more, in
consequence of there being practical objections, into which I need not
enter, to the reception there of the children of persons so employed, am
prepared in these altered circumstances to make a proposal.  I am willing
to take charge of you, Jupe, and to educate you, and provide for you.
The only condition (over and above your good behaviour) I make is, that
you decide now, at once, whether to accompany me or remain here.  Also,
that if you accompany me now, it is understood that you communicate no
more with any of your friends who are here present.  These observations
comprise the whole of the case.
At the thame time, said Sleary, I mutht put in my word, Thquire, tho
that both thides of the banner may be equally theen.  If you like,
Thethilia, to be prentitht, you know the natur of the work and you know
your companionth.  Emma Gordon, in whothe lap youre a lying at prethent,
would be a mother to you, and Jothphine would be a thithter to you.  I
dont pretend to be of the angel breed myself, and I dont thay but what,
when you mithd your tip, youd find me cut up rough, and thwear an oath
or two at you.  But what I thay, Thquire, ith, that good tempered or bad
tempered, I never did a horthe a injury yet, no more than thwearing at
him went, and that I dont expect I thall begin otherwithe at my time of
life, with a rider.  I never wath much of a Cackler, Thquire, and I have
thed my thay.
