He was sustained in this long swim by two beloved subjects, one bitter
and one sweet. The literary life was written about in those days almost
as much as it was talked about, and it was continually being used by the
young decadents as the occasion for predictions of their own later
squalor in which morphia and dark ladies, moulded in the likeness of
beautiful young Mrs Patrick Campbell, played parts which in the
subsequent realisation were taken by plain beer and plainer barmaids. Mr
James took up the poor, scribbled-about thing and turned it over very
reverently, none knowing better than he that the artist was the _sacer
vates_ of his time, and very sadly, because he had now close on thirty
years of intimacy with artists behind him. He had known Turgeniev, the
most "beautiful genius" of his age, and had found him rather lonely and
pre-eminently not eminent in the eyes of the world; he had seen the dark
days of Rossetti; he had trod so close on the heels of Alfred de Musset
as to know that _il s'absente trop de l'Academie parcequ'il s'absinthe
trop_; he had seen poor, fat little Zola, who thought that though one
could not build Rome in a day one could describe it in less, plodding
and sweating up the wrong road to art. And so, in a mood of clear
melancholy, with an occasional flash of irony which was doubtless the
sole comment wrung from his urbanity by the fact that that age, when the
change of the novel's price from thirty-one and sixpence to six
shillings had enormously increased the reading public, had brought no
enlargement of his circle of readers, he wrote that wonderful series of
stories which began with _The Lesson of the Master_ (1888) and included
_The Middle Years_ (1893), _The Next Time_ (1895), and _The Death of the
Lion_ (1894). Save for that roaring joke, _The Coxon Fund_ (1894), where
one sees Frank Saltram, a "free rearrangement of Coleridge," charming
and sponging on the rich, bringing into their drawing-rooms a swaying
body that should be taken home at once in a cab and a mind "like a
crystal suspended in the moral world--swinging and shining and flashing
there," these are all sad stories. The master is bullied out of being a
master by the financial importunities of a smart wife and comely
children; the author of _The Middle Years_ dies with none but an
acquaintance picked up at the seaside to hold his hand; Ralph Limbert is
killed by worry because he could not stop producing masterpieces when it
was the damned marketable asset that was required to pay the wages of
his wife's maid; the lion dies in a cold country house, with no fire in
his bedroom, while his hostess gets paragraphed for her charity to the
wild literary, and his last manuscript goes astray downstairs somewhere
between Lord Dorimont's man and Lady Augusta's maid. One knows next to
nothing at all about the faith consciously rejected or adopted by Henry
James, and whether the atmosphere of speculative theology in which he
was bred had made him think religion as far beyond his mental range as
mathematics, or whether Christianity seemed to him just the excuse of
the Latin races for building high cool places, very grateful in the
heat, and filling them with incense and images of kind, interceding
people. But in this melancholy series, and indeed in all his later
works--for right on to _The Golden Bowl_ (1905) he presents his
characters as being worthy of treatment just because they are in some
way or other struggling to preserve some decency from engulfment in the
common lot of nastiness--one perceives that he had been born with the
grim New England faith like a cold drop in his blood. The earth was a
vale of tears, and all one could do was to go on, uninfluenced by
weeping or the fear of weeping, to some high goal. This sad belief,
accompanied by so intense a consciousness that his particular goal, the
art of great writing, was reached by a stonier and longer path than any,
might have been expected to provoke him rather to the fury of Landor or
the gloomy pomposity of Wordsworth than to the unhurried, unimpassioned
production of these wonderful stories, these exquisite vessels that
swaggeringly hold and clearly show the contained draught of truth, like
tall-stemmed goblets of Venetian glass. But glass is the wrong image;
for no hand could ever break these, no critical eye detect a crack. They
are so truthfully conceived that one could compare them only to some
nobly infrangible substance, so realistic and yet so charged with
significance by their fashioning that their likeness must be something
which is transparent and yet gives the light a white fire as it passed
through. It is of crystal they are made, hard, luminous crystal.
