Take the case of the English drama.  At first in the hands of the monks
Dramatic Art was abstract, decorative and mythological.  Then she
enlisted Life in her service, and using some of lifes external forms,
she created an entirely new race of beings, whose sorrows were more
terrible than any sorrow man has ever felt, whose joys were keener than
lovers joys, who had the rage of the Titans and the calm of the gods,
who had monstrous and marvellous sins, monstrous and marvellous virtues.
To them she gave a language different from that of actual use, a language
full of resonant music and sweet rhythm, made stately by solemn cadence,
or made delicate by fanciful rhyme, jewelled with wonderful words, and
enriched with lofty diction.  She clothed her children in strange raiment
and gave them masks, and at her bidding the antique world rose from its
marble tomb.  A new Casar stalked through the streets of risen Rome, and
with purple sail and flute-led oars another Cleopatra passed up the river
to Antioch.  Old myth and legend and dream took shape and substance.
History was entirely re-written, and there was hardly one of the
dramatists who did not recognise that the object of Art is not simple
truth but complex beauty.  In this they were perfectly right.  Art itself
is really a form of exaggeration; and selection, which is the very spirit
of art, is nothing more than an intensified mode of over-emphasis.
But Life soon shattered the perfection of the form.  Even in Shakespeare
we can see the beginning of the end.  It shows itself by the gradual
breaking-up of the blank-verse in the later plays, by the predominance
given to prose, and by the over-importance assigned to characterisation.
The passages in Shakespeareand they are manywhere the language is
uncouth, vulgar, exaggerated, fantastic, obscene even, are entirely due
to Life calling for an echo of her own voice, and rejecting the
intervention of beautiful style, through which alone should life be
suffered to find expression.  Shakespeare is not by any means a flawless
artist.  He is too fond of going directly to life, and borrowing lifes
natural utterance.  He forgets that when Art surrenders her imaginative
medium she surrenders everything.  Goethe says, somewhere
    In der Beschränkung zeigt Fsich erst der Meister,
It is in working within limits that the master reveals himself, and the
limitation, the very condition of any art is style.  However, we need not
linger any longer over Shakespeares realism.  _The Tempest_ is the most
perfect of palinodes.  All that we desired to point out was, that the
magnificent work of the Elizabethan and Jacobean artists contained within
itself the seeds of its own dissolution, and that, if it drew some of its
strength from using life as rough material, it drew all its weakness from
using life as an artistic method.  As the inevitable result of this
substitution of an imitative for a creative medium, this surrender of an
imaginative form, we have the modern English melodrama.  The characters
in these plays talk on the stage exactly as they would talk off it; they
have neither aspirations nor aspirates; they are taken directly from life
and reproduce its vulgarity down to the smallest detail; they present the
gait, manner, costume and accent of real people; they would pass
unnoticed in a third-class railway carriage.  And yet how wearisome the
plays are!  They do not succeed in producing even that impression of
reality at which they aim, and which is their only reason for existing.
As a method, realism is a complete failure.
