CYRIL.  My dear boy!
VIVIAN.  I assure you it is the case, and the amusing part of the whole
thing is that the story of the cherry-tree is an absolute myth.  However,
you must not think that I am too despondent about the artistic future
either of America or of our own country.  Listen to this:
That some change will take place before this century has drawn to its
close we have no doubt whatsoever.  Bored by the tedious and improving
conversation of those who have neither the wit to exaggerate nor the
genius to romance, tired of the intelligent person whose reminiscences
are always based upon memory, whose statements are invariably limited by
probability, and who is at any time liable to be corroborated by the
merest Philistine who happens to be present, Society sooner or later must
return to its lost leader, the cultured and fascinating liar.  Who he was
who first, without ever having gone out to the rude chase, told the
wandering cavemen at sunset how he had dragged the Megatherium from the
purple darkness of its jasper cave, or slain the Mammoth in single combat
and brought back its gilded tusks, we cannot tell, and not one of our
modern anthropologists, for all their much-boasted science, has had the
ordinary courage to tell us.  Whatever was his name or race, he certainly
was the true founder of social intercourse.  For the aim of the liar is
simply to charm, to delight, to give pleasure.  He is the very basis of
civilised society, and without him a dinner-party, even at the mansions
of the great, is as dull as a lecture at the Royal Society, or a debate
at the Incorporated Authors, or one of Mr. Burnands farcical comedies.
Nor will he be welcomed by society alone.  Art, breaking from the
prison-house of realism, will run to greet him, and will kiss his false,
beautiful lips, knowing that he alone is in possession of the great
secret of all her manifestations, the secret that Truth is entirely and
absolutely a matter of style; while Lifepoor, probable, uninteresting
human lifetired of repeating herself for the benefit of Mr. Herbert
Spencer, scientific historians, and the compilers of statistics in
general, will follow meekly after him, and try to reproduce, in her own
simple and untutored way, some of the marvels of which he talks.
No doubt there will always be critics who, like a certain writer in the
_Saturday Review_, will gravely censure the teller of fairy tales for his
defective knowledge of natural history, who will measure imaginative work
by their own lack of any imaginative faculty, and will hold up their
ink-stained hands in horror if some honest gentleman, who has never been
farther than the yew-trees of his own garden, pens a fascinating book of
travels like Sir John Mandeville, or, like great Raleigh, writes a whole
history of the world, without knowing anything whatsoever about the past.
To excuse themselves they will try and shelter under the shield of him
who made Prospero the magician, and gave him Caliban and Ariel as his
servants, who heard the Tritons blowing their horns round the coral reefs
of the Enchanted Isle, and the fairies singing to each other in a wood
near Athens, who led the phantom kings in dim procession across the misty
Scottish heath, and hid Hecate in a cave with the weird sisters.  They
will call upon Shakespearethey always doand will quote that hackneyed
passage forgetting that this unfortunate aphorism about Art holding the
mirror up to Nature, is deliberately said by Hamlet in order to convince
the bystanders of his absolute insanity in all art-matters.
