  _Exe._ He'll make your Paris Louvre shake for it:
  And, be assur'd, you'll find a difference
  Between the promise of his greener days
  And these he masters now: now he weighs time,
  Even to the utmost grain: which you shall read[26]
  In your own losses, if he stay in France.
  _Fr. King._ To-morrow shall you know our mind at full.
  _Exe._ Despatch us with all speed, lest that our king
  Come here himself to question our delay;
  For he is footed in this land already.
  _Fr. King._ You shall be soon despatch'd with fair conditions:
    [_MONTJOY crosses to the English party._
  A night is but small breath and little pause
  To answer matters of this consequence.
    [_English party exit, with MONTJOY and others, L.H.
    French Lords group round the KING._
    _Trumpets sound._
    [Footnote II.15: ----FRENCH KING,] The costume of Charles VI. is
    copied from Willemin, Monuments Francais. The dresses of the other
    Lords are selected from Montfaucon Monarchie Francoise.]
    [Footnote II.16: _----more than carefully it us concerns,_] _More
    than carefully_ is _with more than common care_; a phrase of the
    same kind with _better than well_. --JOHNSON.]
    [Footnote II.17: _How modest in exception,_] How diffident and
    decent in making objections.]
    [Footnote II.18: _----strain_] _lineage_.]
    [Footnote II.19: _That +haunted+ us_] To _haunt_ is a word of the
    utmost horror, which shows that they dreaded the English as
    goblins and spirits.]
    [Footnote II.20: _----crown'd with the golden sun,--_]
    Shakespeare's meaning (divested of its poetical fancy) probably
    is, that the king stood upon an eminence, with the sun shining
    over his head. --STEEVENS.]
    [Footnote II.21: _----+fate+ of him._] His _fate_ is what is
    allotted him by destiny, or what he is fated to perform.]
    [Footnote II.22: _Montjoy,_] Mont-joie is the title of the
    principal king-at-arms in France, as Garter is in our country.]
    [Footnote II.23: _----spend their mouths,_] That is, bark; the
    sportsman's term.]
    [Footnote II.24: _----memorable +line+,_] This genealogy; this
    deduction of his _lineage_.]
    [Footnote II.25: _Shall +chide+ your trespass,_] To _chide_ is to
    _resound_, to _echo_.]
    [Footnote II.26: _----you shall read_] i.e., shall _find_.]
END OF ACT SECOND.
HISTORICAL NOTES TO CHORUS--ACT SECOND.
  (A) _These corrupted men,----
  One, Richard earl of Cambridge; and the second,
  Henry lord Scroop of Masham; and the third,
  Sir Thomas Grey knight of Northumberland,--
  Have for the guilt of France (O, guilt, indeed!)
  Confirm'd conspiracy with fearful France._
About the end of July, Henry's ambitious designs received a momentary
check from the discovery of a treasonable conspiracy against his person
and government, by Richard, Earl of Cambridge, brother of the Duke of
York; Henry, Lord Scroop of Masham, the Lord Treasurer; and Sir Thomas
Grey, of Heton, knight. The king's command for the investigation of the
affair, was dated on the 21st of that month, and a writ was issued to
the Sheriff of Southampton, to assemble a jury for their trial; and
which on Friday, the 2nd of August, found that on the 20th of July,
Richard, Earl of Cambridge, and Thomas Grey, of Heton, in the County of
Northumberland, knight, had falsely and traitorously conspired to
collect a body of armed men, to conduct Edmund, Earl of March,[*] to the
frontiers of Wales, and to proclaim him the rightful heir to the crown,
in case Richard II. was actually dead; but they had solicited Thomas
Frumpyngton, who personated King Richard, Henry Percy, and many others
from Scotland to invade the realm, that they had intended to destroy the
King, the Duke of Clarence, the Duke of Bedford, the Duke of Gloucester,
with other lords and great men; and that Henry, Lord Scroop, of Masham,
consented to the said treasonable purposes, and concealed the knowledge
of them from the king. On the same day the accused were reported by Sir
John Popham, Constable of the Castle of Southampton, to whose custody
they had been committed, to have confessed the justice of the charges
brought against them, and that they threw themselves on the king's
mercy; but Scroop endeavoured to extenuate his conduct, by asserting
that his intentions were innocent, and that he appeared only to
acquiesce in their designs to be enabled to defeat them. The Earl and
Lord Scroop having claimed the privilege of being tried by the peers,
were remanded to prison, but sentence of death in the usual manner was
pronounced against Grey, and he was immediately executed; though, in
consequence of Henry having dispensed with his being drawn and hung, he
was allowed to walk from the Watergate to the Northgate of the town of
Southampton, where he was beheaded. A commission was soon afterwards
issued, addressed to the Duke of Clarence, for the trial of the Earl of
Cambridge and Lord Scroop: this court unanimously declared the prisoners
guilty, and sentence of death having been denounced against them, they
paid the forfeit of their lives on Monday, the 5th of August. In
consideration of the earl being of the blood royal, he was merely
beheaded; but to mark the perfidy and ingratitude of Scroop, who had
enjoyed the king's utmost confidence and friendship, and had even shared
his bed, he commanded that he should be drawn to the place of execution,
and that his head should be affixed on one of the gates of the city of
York. --_Nicolas's History of the Battle of Agincourt_.
