MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Humbly_.]  Nothing.  I know itbut I tell you that your
husband loves youthat you may never meet with such love again in your
whole lifethat such love you will never meetand that if you throw it
away, the day may come when you will starve for love and it will not be
given to you, beg for love and it will be denied youOh! Arthur loves
you!
LADY WINDERMERE.  Arthur?  And you tell me there is nothing between you?
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Lady Windermere, before Heaven your husband is guiltless
of all offence towards you!  And II tell you that had it ever occurred
to me that such a monstrous suspicion would have entered your mind, I
would have died rather than have crossed your life or hisoh! died,
gladly died!  [_Moves away to sofa R._]
LADY WINDERMERE.  You talk as if you had a heart.  Women like you have no
hearts.  Heart is not in you.  You are bought and sold.  [_Sits L.C._]
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Starts_, _with a gesture of pain_.  _Then restrains
herself_, _and comes over to where_ LADY WINDERMERE _is sitting_.  _As
she speaks_, _she stretches out her hands towards her_, _but does not
dare to touch her_.]  Believe what you choose about me.  I am not worth a
moments sorrow.  But dont spoil your beautiful young life on my
account!  You dont know what may be in store for you, unless you leave
this house at once.  You dont know what it is to fall into the pit, to
be despised, mocked, abandoned, sneered atto be an outcast! to find the
door shut against one, to have to creep in by hideous byways, afraid
every moment lest the mask should be stripped from ones face, and all
the while to hear the laughter, the horrible laughter of the world, a
thing more tragic than all the tears the world has ever shed.  You dont
know what it is.  One pays for ones sin, and then one pays again, and
all ones life one pays.  You must never know that.As for me, if
suffering be an expiation, then at this moment I have expiated all my
faults, whatever they have been; for to-night you have made a heart in
one who had it not, made it and broken it.But let that pass.  I may have
wrecked my own life, but I will not let you wreck yours.  Youwhy, you
are a mere girl, you would be lost.  You havent got the kind of brains
that enables a woman to get back.  You have neither the wit nor the
courage.  You couldnt stand dishonour!  No!  Go back, Lady Windermere,
to the husband who loves you, whom you love.  You have a child, Lady
Windermere.  Go back to that child who even now, in pain or in joy, may
be calling to you.  [LADY WINDERMERE _rises_.]  God gave you that child.
He will require from you that you make his life fine, that you watch over
him.  What answer will you make to God if his life is ruined through you?
Back to your house, Lady Windermereyour husband loves you!  He has never
swerved for a moment from the love he bears you.  But even if he had a
thousand loves, you must stay with your child.  If he was harsh to you,
you must stay with your child.  If he ill-treated you, you must stay with
your child.  If he abandoned you, your place is with your child.
