Then his valet brought him a cup of chocolate on a tray.  After he had
drunk it, he drew aside a heavy _portiere_ of peach-coloured plush, and
passed into the bathroom.  The light stole softly from above, through
thin slabs of transparent onyx, and the water in the marble tank
glimmered like a moonstone.  He plunged hastily in, till the cool ripples
touched throat and hair, and then dipped his head right under, as though
he would have wiped away the stain of some shameful memory.  When he
stepped out he felt almost at peace.  The exquisite physical conditions
of the moment had dominated him, as indeed often happens in the case of
very finely-wrought natures, for the senses, like fire, can purify as
well as destroy.
After breakfast, he flung himself down on a divan, and lit a cigarette.
On the mantel-shelf, framed in dainty old brocade, stood a large
photograph of Sybil Merton, as he had seen her first at Lady Noels ball.
The small, exquisitely-shaped head drooped slightly to one side, as
though the thin, reed-like throat could hardly bear the burden of so much
beauty; the lips were slightly parted, and seemed made for sweet music;
and all the tender purity of girlhood looked out in wonder from the
dreaming eyes.  With her soft, clinging dress of _crepe-de-chine_, and
her large leaf-shaped fan, she looked like one of those delicate little
figures men find in the olive-woods near Tanagra; and there was a touch
of Greek grace in her pose and attitude.  Yet she was not _petite_.  She
was simply perfectly proportioneda rare thing in an age when so many
women are either over life-size or insignificant.
Now as Lord Arthur looked at her, he was filled with the terrible pity
that is born of love.  He felt that to marry her, with the doom of murder
hanging over his head, would be a betrayal like that of Judas, a sin
worse than any the Borgia had ever dreamed of.  What happiness could
there be for them, when at any moment he might be called upon to carry
out the awful prophecy written in his hand?  What manner of life would be
theirs while Fate still held this fearful fortune in the scales?  The
marriage must be postponed, at all costs.  Of this he was quite resolved.
Ardently though he loved the girl, and the mere touch of her fingers,
when they sat together, made each nerve of his body thrill with exquisite
joy, he recognised none the less clearly where his duty lay, and was
fully conscious of the fact that he had no right to marry until he had
committed the murder.  This done, he could stand before the altar with
Sybil Merton, and give his life into her hands without terror of
wrongdoing.  This done, he could take her to his arms, knowing that she
would never have to blush for him, never have to hang her head in shame.
But done it must be first; and the sooner the better for both.
