It chanced, while he was lounging about in this moody state, that he
stumbled upon a flight of stairs, dark, steep, and narrow, which he
ascended without any thought about the matter, and so came into a little
music-gallery, empty and deserted.  From this elevated post, which
commanded the whole hall, he amused himself in looking down upon the
attendants who were clearing away the fragments of the feast very lazily,
and drinking out of all the bottles and glasses with most commendable
perseverance.
His attention gradually relaxed, and he fell fast asleep.
When he awoke, he thought there must be something the matter with his
eyes; but, rubbing them a little, he soon found that the moonlight was
really streaming through the east window, that the lamps were all
extinguished, and that he was alone.  He listened, but no distant murmur
in the echoing passages, not even the shutting of a door, broke the deep
silence; he groped his way down the stairs, and found that the door at
the bottom was locked on the other side.  He began now to comprehend that
he must have slept a long time, that he had been overlooked, and was shut
up there for the night.
His first sensation, perhaps, was not altogether a comfortable one, for
it was a dark, chilly, earthy-smelling place, and something too large,
for a man so situated, to feel at home in.  However, when the momentary
consternation of his surprise was over, he made light of the accident,
and resolved to feel his way up the stairs again, and make himself as
comfortable as he could in the gallery until morning.  As he turned to
execute this purpose, he heard the clocks strike three.
Any such invasion of a dead stillness as the striking of distant clocks,
causes it to appear the more intense and insupportable when the sound has
ceased.  He listened with strained attention in the hope that some clock,
lagging behind its fellows, had yet to strike,looking all the time into
the profound darkness before him, until it seemed to weave itself into a
black tissue, patterned with a hundred reflections of his own eyes.  But
the bells had all pealed out their warning for that once, and the gust of
wind that moaned through the place seemed cold and heavy with their iron
breath.
The time and circumstances were favourable to reflection.  He tried to
keep his thoughts to the current, unpleasant though it was, in which they
had moved all day, and to think with what a romantic feeling he had
looked forward to shaking his old friend by the hand before he died, and
what a wide and cruel difference there was between the meeting they had
had, and that which he had so often and so long anticipated.  Still, he
was disordered by waking to such sudden loneliness, and could not prevent
his mind from running upon odd tales of people of undoubted courage, who,
being shut up by night in vaults or churches, or other dismal places, had
scaled great heights to get out, and fled from silence as they had never
done from danger.  This brought to his mind the moonlight through the
window, and bethinking himself of it, he groped his way back up the
crooked stairs,but very stealthily, as though he were fearful of being
overheard.
