The Scene of Affairs in _Ireland_ was very much alter'd upon raising the
Siege of _London-derry_; Men and Arms were imported from _England_ on
all Sides to make Head against King _James_, and several bloody
Skirmishes happen'd in several Parts of the Kingdom. It wou'd make a
Volume to account the Marches and Counter-marches both Parties made in
that irregular Country to attack and avoid one another. But where ever
it was my Lot to engage, the general Complaint was a want of Money,
Ammunition and Arms; this (as it cou'd not be otherwise) made us
unsuccessful under many promising Advantages. We had Men enough, and
those not destitute of Zeal or Courage; but to expose themselves Naked
against Arms and Discipline, was a desperate way of Engaging. But
_France_ still went upon the old Politick Scheme to gain Advantages upon
the Continent by dilatory Proceedings in King _James_'s Affairs; for
unless this was their Prospect, was it not a supine Piece of Management
to suffer a Body of near Thirty Thousand brave Men to lie unarm'd in the
Field above half a Year, when _France_ had Magazines and Stores to
furnish above a Million of Soldiers? But as King _James_ was not only to
be the _Dupe_ of their great Monarch, but the Sport and Game of his
Ministers, besides a general Topick of refusing him an Assistance upon
the Politick Motive of prolonging the War. It seems the Chief Minister
of State had some private Ends in these dilatory Proceedings, and King
_James_'s Cause in _Ireland_ was also to be sacrific'd to this
Gentleman's Resentments. The Case was this, _Lewis_ XIV upon great
Importunity, and to put a Gloss upon, and lay deep Colours upon his
Politicks, condescended so far, as to order five or six Thousand
despicable Foot Soldiers for King _James_'s Service in _Ireland_, with a
General at their Head, who had been more accustom'd to lead up a Country
Dance than an Army, and better qualify'd to break a Jest than look in
upon an Enemy. This General, however, was according to King _James_'s
own liking, though contrary to the Chief Minister's Design, who wanted
that Post for a Relation of his own. This undesign'd Affront of King
_James_ in preferring _C.L._ to the Minister's Favourite, lost the
Battle of the _Boyne_, and perhaps all _Ireland_; for the Chief Minister
would neither send Arms nor Money to supply that brave Body of Men, but
threw them into the Circumstances of either dying unreveng'd, or saving
their Lives by Flight. The History of that Battle has so many Eye
Witnesses still alive for me to dwell upon it; I shall only make bold to
relate what my Fate was upon that unfortunate Day, and how inglorious
_France_ withdrew the sham Succours they sent _King_ James. My Post was
to Head a Company of _Fingalian_ Granadiers, who were plac'd in an
Orchard which hung over a Defilee, through which we expected the Enemy
would march after they had pass'd the River. I make bold to stile my
Company Granadiers, because they were design'd to be so when first
rais'd, but were now arm'd rather like Pioneers than Grenadiers; we had
not above a dozen Granadoes, no Bayonets, and several without any
Fire-arms; and if the Chief Men of the Action were no better equipp'd,
'tis easy to guess how the Gross of the Army was provided. According to
our Expectation, a Party of the Enemy fell into the Trap, and what Shot
we had, we let it successively fly at them out of the Orchard; in the
mean time, we heard a great Noise behind us, and turning my self about,
I saw the Orchard almost surrounded with Horse, which I expected were
some of our own Party coming up to support us, but found them to be a
Squadron of the Enemy, who immediately summon'd us to yield, or we must
expect the last Fate of War. There was no time to Parley, upon which I
made a Sign to the Commanding Officer of the Enemy not to proceed to
Slaughter, and so out of Twenty Two Men with which I defended that Post,
Nine of us fell into the Enemies Hands, the rest dying bravely in the
Engagement. Our Entertaintment was what is usually with Prisoners of
War, Hunger and hard Lodgings, but in a little Time being remov'd to
_Dublin_, Things were better with me; I had the Liberty of a large
Prison and civil Usage. And here it was I met with an excellent Friend,
who never fail'd those who make Application to him, I mean a small Bank
of Money which my Brother left me, and which I had sent to _Dublin per_
Bill from _Newry_, that I might run no hazard of being plunder'd in case
of a Defeat, and in this I have often applauded my own Caution, that
though I have frequently hazarded my Life, I never risqu'd my Substance;
if Death happen'd, I was certain of being provided for; and if
Imprisonment, I had what wou'd make my Captivity easy, and perhaps,
purchase my Enlargement.
