Notwithstanding that fatal Battle the Year preceding, namely, _A.D._
1694, the Confederate Army under King _William_ lay encamp'd at _Mont.
St. Andre_, an open Place, and much expos'd; while the _French_ were
entrench'd up to their very Teeth, at _Vignamont_, a little Distance
from us. This afforded Matter of great Reflection to the Politicians of
those Times, who could hardly allow, that if the Confederate Army
suffer'd so much, as it really did in the Battle of _Landen_, it could
consist with right Conduct to tempt, or rather dare a new Engagement.
But those sage Objectors had forgot the well-known Courage of that brave
Prince, and were as little capable of fathoming his Designs. The Enemy,
who to their Sorrow had by Experience been made better Judges, was
resolv'd to traverse both; for which Purpose they kept close within
their Entrenchments; so that after all his Efforts, King _William_
finding he could no way draw them to a Battle, suddenly decamp'd, and
march'd directly to _Pont Espiers_, by long Marches, with a Design to
pass the _French_ Lines at that Place.
But notwithstanding our Army march'd in a direct Line, to our great
Surprize, we found the Enemy had first taken possession of it. They gave
this the Name of the _Long March_, and very deservedly; for though our
Army march'd upon the String, and the Enemy upon the Bow, sensible of
the Importance of the Post, and the Necessity of securing it, by double
horseing with their Foot, and by leaving their Weary and Weak in their
Garrisons, and supplying their Places with fresh Men out of them, they
gain'd their Point in disappointing us. Though certain it is, that March
cost 'em as many Men and Horses as a Battle. However their Master, the
_French_ King, was so pleas'd with their indefatigable and auspicious
Diligence, that he wrote, with his own Hand, a Letter of Thanks to the
Officers, for the great Zeal and Care they had taken to prevent the
Confederate Army from entring into _French Flanders_.
King _William_, thus disappointed in that noble Design, gave immediate
Orders for his whole Army to march through _Oudenard_, and then ecamp'd
at _Rofendale_; after some little Stay at that Camp we were remov'd to
the _Camerlins_, between _Newport_ and _Ostend_, once more to take our
Winter Quarters there among the Boors.
We were now in the Year 1695 when the strong Fortress of _Namur_, taken
by the _French_ in 1692 and since made by them much stronger, was
invested by the Earl of _Athlone_. After very many vigorous Attacks,
with the Loss of many Men, the Town was taken, the Garrison retiring
into the Castle. Into which soon after, notwithstanding all the
Circumspection of the Besiegers, Mareschal _Bouflers_ found means, with
some Dragoons, to throw himself.
While King _William_ was thus engag'd in that glorious and important
Siege, Prince _Vaudemont_ being posted at _Watergaem_, with about fifty
Battallions, and as many Squadrons, the Mareschal _Villeroy_ laid a
Design to attack him with the whole _French_ Army. The Prince imagin'd
no less, therefore he prepar'd accordingly, giving us Orders to fortify
our Camp, as well as the little time we had for it would permit. Those
Orders were pursu'd; nevertheless, I must confess, it was beyond the
Reach of my little Reason to account for our so long Stay in the Sight
of an Army so much superior to ours. The Prince in the Whole could
hardly muster thirty Thousand; and _Villeroy_ was known to value himself
upon having one Hundred Thousand effective Men. However, the Prince
provisionally sent away all our Baggage that very Morning to _Ghent_,
and still made shew as if he resolv'd to defend himself to the last
Extremity in our little Entrenchments. The enemy on their Side began to
surround us; and in their Motions for that Purpose, blew up little Bags
of Gun-powder, to give the readier Notice how far they had acomplish'd
it. Another Captain, with my self, being plac'd on the Right, with one
Hundred Men (where I found Monsieur _Montal_ endeavouring, if possible,
to get behind us) I could easily observe, they had so far attain'd their
Aim of encompassing us, as to the very Fashion of a Horse's Shoe. This
made me fix my Eyes so intently upon the advancing Enemy, that I never
minded what my Friends were doing behind me; though I afterwards found
that they had been fileing off so very artfully and privately, by that
narrow Opening of the Horse-Shoe, that when the Enemy imagin'd us past a
Possibility of Escape, our little Army at once, and of a sudden, was
ready to disappear. There was a large Wood on the Right of our Army,
through which lay the Road to _Ghent_, not broader than to admit of more
than Four to march a breast. Down this the Prince had slid his Forces,
except to that very small Party which the Captain and my self commanded,
and which was designedly left to bring up the Rear. Nor did we stir till
Captain _Collier_, then _Aid de Camp_ to his Brother, now Earl of
_Portmore_, came with the Word of Command for us to draw off.
