King _James_ having abdicated the Throne, and the Prince of _Orange_
accepting the Administration, all Commissions were order'd to be renew'd
in his Name. The Officers of our Regiment, as well as others, severally
took out theirs accordingly, a very few excepted, of which Number was
our Colonel; who refusing a Compliance, his Commission was given to Sir
_James Lesley._
The Prince of _Orange_ presently after was declar'd and proclaim'd King,
and his Princess Queen, with a conjunctive Power. Upon which our
Regiment was order'd into _Scotland_, where Affairs appear'd under a
Face of Disquietude. We had our Quarters at _Leith_, till the Time the
Castle of _Edinburgh_, then under the Command of the Duke of _Gordon_,
had surrender'd. After which, pursuant to fresh Orders, we march'd to
_Inverness_, a Place of no great Strength, and as little Beauty; though
yet I think I may say, without the least Danger of an _Hyperbole_, that
it is as pleasant as most Places in that Country. Here we lay two long
Winters, perpetually harrass'd upon Parties, and hunting of somewhat
wilder than their wildest Game, namely, the _Highlanders,_ who were, if
not as nimble footed, yet fully as hard to be found.
But General _Mackay_ having receiv'd Orders to build a Fort at
_Inverlochy_, our Regiment, among others, was commanded to that Service.
The two Regiments appointed on the same Duty, with some few Dragoons,
were already on their March, which having join'd, we march'd together
through _Louquebar_. This sure is the wildest Country in the
_Highlands_, if not in the World. I did not see one House in all our
March; and their Oeconomy, if I may call it such, is much the same with
that of the _Arabs_ or _Tartars_. Hutts, or Cabins of Trees and Trash,
are their Places of Habitation; in which they dwell, till their
half-horn'd Cattle have devour'd the Grass, and then remove, staying no
where longer than that Convenience invites them.
In this March, or rather, if you please, most dismal Peregrination, we
could be very rarely go two on a Breast; and oftner, like Geeze in a
String, one after another. So that our very little Army had sometimes,
or rather most commonly, an Extent of many Miles; our Enemy, the
_Highlanders_, firing down upon us from their Summits all the Way. Nor
was it possible for our Men, or very rarely at least, to return their
Favours with any Prospect of Success; for as they pop'd upon us always
on a sudden, they never stay'd long enough to allow any of our Soldiers
a Mark; or even time enough to fire: And for our Men to march, or climb
up those Mountains, which to them were natural Champion, would have been
as dangerous as it seem'd to us impracticable. Nevertheless, under all
these disheartning Disadvantages, we arriv'd at _Inverlochy_, and there
perform'd the Task appointed, building a Fort on the same Spot where
_Cromwell_ had rais'd one before. And which was not a little remarkable,
we had with us one _Hill_, a Colonel, who had been Governor in
_Oliver's_ Time, and who was now again appointed Governor by General
_Mackay_. Thus the Work on which we were sent being effected, we march'd
back again by the Way of _Gillycrancky_, where that memorable Battle
under _Dundee_ had been fought the Year before.
