   [Footnote 105: Nestor took this name from a city of Messena
   (_Gerenium_, _a_, or _ia_. See Arnold, and Pinedo on Steph. Byz.
   s.v. [Greek: Gerenia]), where he was brought up, probably after
   Pylos had been destroyed by Hercules.]
   [Footnote 106: Proverbially meaning a few, but probably referring
   to Achilles and Thersites. See the Scholiast.]
   [Footnote 107: Observe this bold change of construction, and
   compare Valck. on Lesbonax, at the end of his edition of
   Ammonius, p. 188.]
   [Footnote 108: Hesych. [Greek: ormemata, merimnai]. Etym. M.
   [Greek: enthymemata, phrontides]. See Buttm. Lexil. p. 440, sqq.
   Helen certainly shows some repentance in iii. 176.]
   [Footnote 109: "Pro virili parte," Wolf. Cf. i. 271.]
But him answering, king Agamemnon addressed: "Old man, now indeed, as at
other times, dost thou excel the sons of the Greeks in council. For,
would, O father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, that I were possessed of ten
such fellow-counsellors among the Greeks! So should the city of Priam
quickly fall, captured and destroyed by our hands. But upon me hath
aegis-bearing Jove, the son of Saturn, sent sorrow, who casts me into
unavailing strifes and contentions. For I and Achilles have quarrelled
on account of a maid with opposing words: but I began quarrelling. But
if ever we shall consult in common, no longer then shall there be a
respite from evil to the Trojans, no, not for ever so short a time. Now
go to your repast, that we may join battle. Let each one well sharpen
his spear, and well prepare[110] his shield. Let him give fodder to his
swift-footed steeds, and let each one, looking well to his chariot, get
ready for war; that we may contend all day in the dreadful battle. Nor
shall there be a cessation, not for ever so short a while, until night
coming on shall part the wrath of the heroes. The belt of the
man-protecting[111] shield shall be moist with sweat around the breasts
of each one, and he shall weary his hand round his spear; and each one's
horse shall sweat, dragging the well-polished chariot. But whomsoever I
shall perceive desirous to remain at the beaked ships, apart from the
battle, it will not be possible for him afterwards to escape the dogs
and the birds."
Thus he spoke, but the Argives shouted aloud, as when a wave [roars]
against the steep shore, when the south wind urges it, coming against an
out-jutting rock; for this the billows from all kinds of winds never
forsake, when they may be here or there. And rising up, the people
hastened forth, scattered from ship to ship, and raised up smoke among
the tents, and took repast. And one sacrificed to some one of the
immortal gods, and [another to another,] praying to escape death and the
slaughter of war. But king Agamemnon offered up a fat ox, of five years
old, to the powerful son of Saturn, and summoned the elder chiefs of all
the Greeks, Nestor first of all, and king Idomeneus, but next the two
Ajaxes,[112] and the son of Tydeus, and sixth Ulysses, of equal weight
with Jove in council. But Menelaus, valiant in the din[113] of war, came
of his own accord,[114] for he knew his brother in his heart, how he was
oppressed. Then they stood around the ox, and raised up the pounded
barley cakes: and king Agamemnon, praying amidst them, said:
