Thus in another Place we find him dissecting the Womb of his Mother, and
deep in the Study of Anatomy; but having, as it may be well supposed, no
Help from _Johan Remelini_, or of the Learned _Riolanus_, and other
Anatomists, famous for the most exquisite Discovery of human Body, and
all the Vessels of Life, with their proper Dimensions and Use, all
_David_ could say to the Matter was, _Good Man_, to look up to Heaven,
and admire what he could not understand, _Psal.--I was fearfully and
wonderfully made_, &c.
This is very Good, and well becomes a Pulpit; but what's all this to a
Philosopher? 'Tis not enough for him to know that God has made the
Heavens, the Moon, and the Stars, but must inform himself where he has
plac'd them, and why there; and what their Business, what their
Influences, their Functions, and the End of their Being. 'Tis not enough
for an Anatomist to know that he is fearfully and wonderfully made in
the lowermost Part of the Earth, but he must see those lowermost Parts;
search into the Method Nature proceeds upon in the performing the Office
appointed, must search the Steps she takes, the Tools she works by; and
in short, know all that the God of Nature has permitted to be capable of
Demonstration.
And it seems a just Authority for our Search, that some things are so
plac'd in Nature by a Chain of Causes and Effects, that upon a diligent
Search we may find out what we look for: To search after what God has in
his Sovereignty thought fit to conceal, may be criminal, and doubtless
is so; and the Fruitlesness of the Enquiry is generally Part of the
Punishment to a vain Curiosity: but to search after what our Maker has
not hid, only cover'd with a thin Veil of Natural Obscurity, and which
upon our Search is plain to be read, seems to be justified by the very
Nature of the thing, and the Possibility of the Demonstration is an
Argument to prove the Lawfulness of the Enquiry.
The Design of this Digression, is, in short, That as where Nature is
plain to be search'd into, and Demonstration easy, the Philosopher is
allow'd to seek for it; so where God has, as it were, laid his Hand upon
any Place, and Nature presents us with an universal Blank, we are
therein led as naturally to recognize the Infinite Wisdom and Power of
the God of Nature, as _David_ was in the Texts before quoted.
And this is the Case here; the Winds are some of those Inscrutables of
Nature, in which humane Search has not yet been able to arrive at any
Demonstration.
'The Winds,' _says the Learned Mr._ Bohun, 'are generated in the
Intermediate Space between the Earth and the Clouds, either by
Rarefaction or Repletion, and sometimes haply by pressure of Clouds,
Elastical Virtue of the Air, &c. from the Earth or Seas, as by Submarine
or Subterraneal Eruption or Descension or Resilition from the middle
Region.'
