THE UNPARALLELED INVASION
IT was in the year 1976 that the trouble between the world and China
reached its culmination.  It was because of this that the celebration of
the Second Centennial of American Liberty was deferred.  Many other plans
of the nations of the earth were twisted and tangled and postponed for
the same reason.  The world awoke rather abruptly to its danger; but for
over seventy years, unperceived, affairs had been shaping toward this
very end.
The year 1904 logically marks the beginning of the development that,
seventy years later, was to bring consternation to the whole world.  The
Japanese-Russian War took place in 1904, and the historians of the time
gravely noted it down that that event marked the entrance of Japan into
the comity of nations.  What it really did mark was the awakening of
China.  This awakening, long expected, had finally been given up.  The
Western nations had tried to arouse China, and they had failed.  Out of
their native optimism and race-egotism they had therefore concluded that
the task was impossible, that China would never awaken.
What they had failed to take into account was this: _that between them
and China was no common psychological speech_.  Their thought-processes
were radically dissimilar.  There was no intimate vocabulary.  The
Western mind penetrated the Chinese mind but a short distance when it
found itself in a fathomless maze.  The Chinese mind penetrated the
Western mind an equally short distance when it fetched up against a
blank, incomprehensible wall.  It was all a matter of language.  There
was no way to communicate Western ideas to the Chinese mind.  China
remained asleep.  The material achievement and progress of the West was a
closed book to her; nor could the West open the book.  Back and deep down
on the tie-ribs of consciousness, in the mind, say, of the
English-speaking race, was a capacity to thrill to short, Saxon words;
back and deep down on the tie-ribs of consciousness of the Chinese mind
was a capacity to thrill to its own hieroglyphics; but the Chinese mind
could not thrill to short, Saxon words; nor could the English-speaking
mind thrill to hieroglyphics.  The fabrics of their minds were woven from
totally different stuffs.  They were mental aliens.  And so it was that
Western material achievement and progress made no dent on the rounded
sleep of China.
Came Japan and her victory over Russia in 1904.  Now the Japanese race
was the freak and paradox among Eastern peoples.  In some strange way
Japan was receptive to all the West had to offer.  Japan swiftly
assimilated the Western ideas, and digested them, and so capably applied
them that she suddenly burst forth, full-panoplied, a world-power.  There
is no explaining this peculiar openness of Japan to the alien culture of
the West.  As well might be explained any biological sport in the animal
kingdom.
Having decisively thrashed the great Russian Empire, Japan promptly set
about dreaming a colossal dream of empire for herself.  Korea she had
made into a granary and a colony; treaty privileges and vulpine diplomacy
gave her the monopoly of Manchuria.  But Japan was not satisfied.  She
turned her eyes upon China.  There lay a vast territory, and in that
territory were the hugest deposits in the world of iron and coalthe
backbone of industrial civilization.  Given natural resources, the other
great factor in industry is labour.  In that territory was a population
of 400,000,000 soulsone quarter of the then total population of the
earth.  Furthermore, the Chinese were excellent workers, while their
fatalistic philosophy (or religion) and their stolid nervous organization
constituted them splendid soldiersif they were properly managed.
Needless to say, Japan was prepared to furnish that management.
