I cannot, however, forbear to descant a little here, on the Dignity
and Beauty of these Feathers, being such as are hardly to be seen in
any part of the World, but just in these remote Climates.
And First, Every Feather has various Colours, and according to the
Variety of the Weather, are apt to look brighter and clearer, or
paler and fainter, as the Sun happens to look on them with a stronger
or weaker Aspect. The Quill or Head of every Feather is or ought to
be full of a vigorous Substance, which gives Spirit, and supports the
brightness and colour of the Feather; and as this is more or less in
quantity, the bright Colour of the Feather is increased, or turns
languid and pale.
Tis true, some of those Quills are exceeding empty and dry; and the
Humid being totally exhal'd, those Feathers grow very useless and
insignificant in a short time.
Some again are so full of Wind, and puft up with the Vapour of the
Climate, that there's not Humid enough to Condence the Steam; and
these are so fleet, so light, and so continually fluttering and
troublesome, that they greatly serve to disturb and keep the Motion
unsteddy.
Others either placed too near the inward concealed Fire, or the Head
of the Quill being thin, the Fire causes too great a Fermentation;
and the Consequence of this is so fatal, that sometimes it mounts the
Engine up too fast, and indangers Precipitation: But 'tis happily
observed, That these ill Feathers are but a very few, compar'd to the
whole number; at the most, I never heard they were above 134 of the
whole number: As for the empty ones, they are not very dangerous, but
a sort of Good-for-nothing Feathers, that will fly when the greatest
number of the rest fly, or stand still when they stand still. The
fluttering hot-headed Feathers are the most dangerous, and frequently
struggle hard to mount the Engine to extravagant heights; but still
the greater number of the Feathers being stanch, and well fixt, as
well as well furnisht, they always prevail, and check the Disorders
the other would bring upon the Motion; so that upon the whole Matter,
tho' there has sometims been oblique Motions, Variations, and
sometimes great Wandrings out of the way, which may make the Passage
tedious, yet it has always been a certain and safe Voyage; and no
Engine was ever known to miscarry or overthrow, but that one
mentioned before, and that was very much owing to the precipitate
Methods the Prince took in guiding it; and tho' all the fault was
laid in the Feathers, and they were to blame enough, yet I never
heard any Wise Man, but what blam'd his Discretion, and particularly,
a certain great Man has wrote three large Tracts of those Affairs,
and call'd them, The History of the Opposition of the Feathers;
wherein, tho' it was expected he would have curst the Engine it self
and all the Feathers to the Devil, on the contrary, he lays equal
blame on the Prince, who guided the Chariot with so unsteddy a hand,
now as much too slack, as then too hard, turning them this way and
that so hastily, that the Feathers could not move in their proper
order; and this at last put the Fire in the Center quite out, and so
the Engine over-set at once. This Impartiality has done great Justice
to the Feathers, and set things in a clearer light: But of this I
shall say more, when I come to treat of the Works of the Learned in
this Lunar World.
