Another conclusion he arrived at, was that in order to sheet-anchor
himself as Freddie Drummond, closer ties and relations in his own social
nook were necessary.  It was time that he was married, anyway, and he was
fully aware that if Freddie Drummond didnt get married, Bill Totts
assuredly would, and the complications were too awful to contemplate.
And so, enters Catherine Van Vorst.  She was a college woman herself, and
her father, the one wealthy member of the faculty, was the head of the
Philosophy Department as well.  It would be a wise marriage from every
standpoint, Freddie Drummond concluded when the engagement was
consummated and announced.  In appearance cold and reserved, aristocratic
and wholesomely conservative, Catherine Van Vorst, though warm in her
way, possessed an inhibition equal to Drummonds.
All seemed well with him, but Freddie Drummond could not quite shake off
the call of the underworld, the lure of the free and open, of the
unhampered, irresponsible life South of the Slot.  As the time of his
marriage approached, he felt that he had indeed sowed wild oats, and he
felt, moreover, what a good thing it would be if he could have but one
wild fling more, play the good fellow and the wastrel one last time, ere
he settled down to grey lecture-rooms and sober matrimony.  And, further
to tempt him, the very last chapter of _Labour Tactics and Strategy_
remained unwritten for lack of a trifle more of essential data which he
had neglected to gather.
So Freddie Drummond went down for the last time as Bill Totts, got his
data, and, unfortunately, encountered Mary Condon.  Once more installed
in his study, it was not a pleasant thing to look back upon.  It made his
warning doubly imperative.  Bill Totts had behaved abominably.  Not only
had he met Mary Condon at the Central Labour Council, but he had stopped
at a chop-house with her, on the way home, and treated her to oysters.
And before they parted at her door, his arms had been about her, and he
had kissed her on the lips and kissed her repeatedly.  And her last words
in his ear, words uttered softly with a catchy sob in the throat that was
nothing more nor less than a love cry, were Bill . . . dear, dear Bill.
Freddie Drummond shuddered at the recollection.  He saw the pit yawning
for him.  He was not by nature a polygamist, and he was appalled at the
possibilities of the situation.  It would have to be put an end to, and
it would end in one only of two ways: either he must become wholly Bill
Totts and be married to Mary Condon, or he must remain wholly Freddie
Drummond and be married to Catherine Van Vorst.  Otherwise, his conduct
would be beneath contempt and horrible.
In the several months that followed, San Francisco was torn with labour
strife.  The unions and the employers associations had locked horns with
a determination that looked as if they intended to settle the matter, one
way or the other, for all time.  But Freddie Drummond corrected proofs,
lectured classes, and did not budge.  He devoted himself to Catherine Van
Vorst, and day by day found more to respect and admire in hernay, even
to love in her.  The Street Car Strike tempted him, but not so severely
as he would have expected; and the great Meat Strike came on and left him
cold.  The ghost of Bill Totts had been successfully laid, and Freddie
Drummond with rejuvenescent zeal tackled a brochure, long-planned, on the
topic of diminishing returns.
