Their first business was to get canoes; and in this they were obliged not
to stick so much upon the honesty of it, but to trespass upon their
friendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas, on
pretence of going out a-fishing, or for pleasure.  In these they came
away the next morning.  It seems they wanted no time to get themselves
ready; for they had neither clothes nor provisions, nor anything in the
world but what they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they
used to make their bread.  They were in all three weeks absent; and in
that time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape,
as I mentioned in the other part, and to get off from the island, leaving
three of the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind me that any man could desire to meet with--to the poor Spaniards'
great grief and disappointment.
The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards came
ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions, and other
relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them the long paper
of directions which I had left with them, containing the particular
methods which I took for managing every part of my life there; the way I
baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I cured my
grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, everything I did.  All this being
written down, they gave to the Spaniards (two of them understood English
well enough): nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with
anything else, for they agreed very well for some time.  They gave them
an equal admission into the house or cave, and they began to live very
sociably; and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my methods,
together with Friday's father, managed all their affairs; but as for the
Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots,
and catch tortoises; and when they came home at night, the Spaniards
provided their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this had the others but let
them alone, which, however, they could not find in their hearts to do
long: but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves,
neither would they let the others eat.  The differences, nevertheless,
were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating, but at
last it broke out into open war: and it began with all the rudeness and
insolence that can be imagined--without reason, without provocation,
contrary to nature, and indeed to common sense; and though, it is true,
the first relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may
call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows they could not
deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a defect
in my former relation; and this was, I forgot to set down among the rest,
that just as we were weighing the anchor to set sail, there happened a
little quarrel on board of our ship, which I was once afraid would have
turned to a second mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain, rousing
up his courage, and taking us all to his assistance, parted them by
force, and making two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid
them in irons: and as they had been active in the former disorders, and
let fall some ugly, dangerous words the second time, he threatened to
carry them in irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny and
running away with the ship.  This, it seems, though the captain did not
intend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them
had put it into the head of the rest that the captain only gave them good
words for the present, till they should come to same English port, and
that then they should be all put into gaol, and tried for their lives.
The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it, upon which
it was desired that I, who still passed for a great man among them,
should go down with the mate and satisfy the men, and tell them that they
might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all they
had done for the time past should be pardoned.  So I went, and after
passing my honour's word to them they appeared easy, and the more so when
I caused the two men that were in irons to be released and forgiven.
