Who, like him, could give a full and compleat account of the Deluge,
whether it was a meer vindictive, a blast from Heaven, wrought by a
supernatural power in the way of miracle? or whether, according to Mr.
_Burnet_'s _Theory_, it was a consequence following antecedent causes by
the meer necessity of nature; seen in constitution, natural position,
and unavoidable working of things, as by the Theory publish'd by that
learn'd enthusiast it seems to be?
_Satan_ could easily account for all the difficulties of the _Theory_,
and tell us whether, as there was a natural necessity of the Deluge,
there is not the like necessity and natural tendency to a Conflagration
at last.
Would _the Devil_ exert himself as an Historian, for our improvement and
diversion, how glorious an account could he give us of _Noah_'s Voyage
round the world, in the famous Ark! he could resolve all the
difficulties about the building it, the furnishing it, and the laying up
provision in it for all the collection of kinds that he had made; He
could tell us whether all the creatures came voluntier to him to go into
the ark, or whether he went a hunting for several years before, in order
to bring them together.
He could give us a true relation how he wheedled the people of the next
world into the absurd ridiculous undertaking of building a _Babel_; how
far that stupendous stair-case, which was in imagination to reach up to
Heaven, was carried, before it was interrupted and the builders
confounded; how their speech was alter'd, how many Tongues it was
divided into, or whether they were divided at all; and how many
subdivisions or dialects have been made since that, by which means very
few of God's creatures, except the Brutes, understand one another, or
care one farthing whether they do or no.
In all these things _Satan_, who, no doubt, would make a very good
chronologist, could settle every Epocha, correct every Calendar, and
bring all our accounts of time to a general agreement; as well the
_Grecian Olympiads_, the _Turkish Heghira_, the _Chinese_ fictitious
account of the world's duration, as our blind _Julian_ and _Gregorian_
accounts, which have put the world, to this day, into such confusion,
that we neither agree in our holy-days or working days, fasts or feasts,
nor keep the same sabbaths in any part of the same globe.
This great Antiquary could bring us to a certainty in all the
difficulties of ancient story, and tell us whether the tale of the siege
of _Troy_, and the rape of _Helen_ was a fable of _Homer_ or a history;
whether the fictions of the Poets are form'd from their own brain, or
founded in facts; and whether letters were invented by _Cadmus_ the
_Phoenician_, or dictated immediately from _Heaven_ at mount _Sinai_.
Nay, he could tell us how and in what manner he wheedled _Eve_, deluded
_Adam_, put _Cain_ into a passion, till he made him murther his own
brother; and made _Noah_, who was above 500 years a preacher of
righteousness, turn Sot in his old age, dishonour all his ministry,
debauch himself with wine, and by getting drunk and exposing himself,
become the jest and laughing-stock of his children, and of all his
posterity to this day.
