Had I lost the friend of my life, in the wreck of the Royal Charter; had
I lost my betrothed, the more than friend of my life; had I lost my
maiden daughter, had I lost my hopeful boy, had I lost my little child; I
would kiss the hands that worked so busily and gently in the church, and
say, None better could have touched the form, though it had lain at
home.  I could be sure of it, I could be thankful for it: I could be
content to leave the grave near the house the good family pass in and out
of every day, undisturbed, in the little churchyard where so many are so
strangely brought together.
Without the name of the clergyman to whomI hope, not without carrying
comfort to some heart at some timeI have referred, my reference would be
as nothing.  He is the Reverend Stephen Roose Hughes, of Llanallgo, near
Moelfra, Anglesey.  His brother is the Reverend Hugh Robert Hughes, of
Penrhos, Alligwy.
III
WAPPING WORKHOUSE
MY days no-business beckoning me to the East-end of London, I had turned
my face to that point of the metropolitan compass on leaving
Covent-garden, and had got past the India House, thinking in my idle
manner of Tippoo-Sahib and Charles Lamb, and had got past my little
wooden midshipman, after affectionately patting him on one leg of his
knee-shorts for old acquaintance sake, and had got past Aldgate Pump,
and had got past the Saracens Head (with an ignominious rash of posting
bills disfiguring his swarthy countenance), and had strolled up the empty
yard of his ancient neighbour the Black or Blue Boar, or Bull, who
departed this life I dont know when, and whose coaches are all gone I
dont know where; and I had come out again into the age of railways, and
I had got past Whitechapel Church, and wasrather inappropriately for an
Uncommercial Travellerin the Commercial Road.  Pleasantly wallowing in
the abundant mud of that thoroughfare, and greatly enjoying the huge
piles of building belonging to the sugar refiners, the little masts and
vanes in small back gardens in back streets, the neighbouring canals and
docks, the India vans lumbering along their stone tramway, and the
pawnbrokers shops where hard-up Mates had pawned so many sextants and
quadrants, that I should have bought a few cheap if I had the least
notion how to use them, I at last began to file off to the right, towards
Wapping.
Not that I intended to take boat at Wapping Old Stairs, or that I was
going to look at the locality, because I believe (for I dont) in the
constancy of the young woman who told her sea-going lover, to such a
beautiful old tune, that she had ever continued the same, since she gave
him the baccer-box marked with his name; I am afraid he usually got the
worst of those transactions, and was frightfully taken in.  No, I was
going to Wapping, because an Eastern police magistrate had said, through
the morning papers, that there was no classification at the Wapping
workhouse for women, and that it was a disgrace and a shame, and divers
other hard names, and because I wished to see how the fact really stood.
For, that Eastern police magistrates are not always the wisest men of the
East, may be inferred from their course of procedure respecting the
fancy-dressing and pantomime-posturing at St. Georges in that quarter:
which is usually, to discuss the matter at issue, in a state of mind
betokening the weakest perplexity, with all parties concerned and
unconcerned, and, for a final expedient, to consult the complainant as to
what he thinks ought to be done with the defendant, and take the
defendants opinion as to what he would recommend to be done with
himself.
