Before the chauffeur could back clear, an old Irishman, driving a rickety
express waggon and lashing his one horse to a gallop, had locked wheels
with the auto.  Drummond recognized both horse and waggon, for he had
driven them often himself.  The Irishman was Pat Morrissey.  On the other
side a brewery waggon was locking with the coal waggon, and an east-bound
Kearny Street car, wildly clanging its gong, the motorman shouting
defiance at the crossing policeman, was dashing forward to complete the
blockade.  And waggon after waggon was locking and blocking and adding to
the confusion.  The meat waggons halted.  The police were trapped.  The
roar at the rear increased as the mob came on to the attack, while the
vanguard of the police charged the obstructing waggons.
Were in for it, Drummond remarked coolly to Catherine.
Yes, she nodded, with equal coolness.  What savages they are.
His admiration for her doubled on itself.  She was indeed his sort.  He
would have been satisfied with her even if she had screamed, and clung to
him, but thisthis was magnificent.  She sat in that storm centre as
calmly as if it had been no more than a block of carriages at the opera.
The police were struggling to clear a passage.  The driver of the coal
waggon, a big man in shirt sleeves, lighted a pipe and sat smoking.  He
glanced down complacently at a captain of police who was raving and
cursing at him, and his only acknowledgment was a shrug of the shoulders.
From the rear arose the rat-rat-tat of clubs on heads and a pandemonium
of cursing, yelling, and shouting.  A violent accession of noise
proclaimed that the mob had broken through and was dragging a scab from a
waggon.  The police captain reinforced from his vanguard, and the mob at
the rear was repelled.  Meanwhile, window after window in the high office
building on the right had been opened, and the class-conscious clerks
were raining a shower of office furniture down on the heads of police and
scabs.  Waste-baskets, ink-bottles, paper-weights, type-writersanything
and everything that came to hand was filling the air.
A policeman, under orders from his captain, clambered to the lofty seat
of the coal waggon to arrest the driver.  And the driver, rising
leisurely and peacefully to meet him, suddenly crumpled him in his arms
and threw him down on top of the captain.  The driver was a young giant,
and when he climbed on his load and poised a lump of coal in both hands,
a policeman, who was just scaling the waggon from the side, let go and
dropped back to earth.  The captain ordered half-a-dozen of his men to
take the waggon.  The teamster, scrambling over the load from side to
side, beat them down with huge lumps of coal.
The crowd on the sidewalks and the teamsters on the locked waggons roared
encouragement and their own delight.  The motorman, smashing helmets with
his controller bar, was beaten into insensibility and dragged from his
platform.  The captain of police, beside himself at the repulse of his
men, led the next assault on the coal waggon.  A score of police were
swarming up the tall-sided fortress.  But the teamster multiplied
himself.  At times there were six or eight policemen rolling on the
pavement and under the waggon.  Engaged in repulsing an attack on the
rear end of his fortress, the teamster turned about to see the captain
just in the act of stepping on to the seat from the front end.  He was
still in the air and in most unstable equilibrium, when the teamster
hurled a thirty-pound lump of coal.  It caught the captain fairly on the
chest, and he went over backward, striking on a wheelers back, tumbling
on to the ground, and jamming against the rear wheel of the auto.
