Nor had the Sons of this Prince much better Success, tho' the first
of them was a Prince mightily belov'd by his Subjects; but his
Misfortunes chiefly proceeded from his having made use of one of the
Engines so very long, that the Feathers were quite worn out, and good
for nothing: He used to make a great many Voyages and Flights into
the Moon, and then would make his Subjects give him great Sums of
Money to come down to them again; and yet they were so fond of him,
That they always complyed with him, and would give him every thing he
askt, rather than to be without him: But they grew wiser since.
At last, this Prince used his Engine so long, it could hold together
no longer; and being obliged to write to his Subjects to pick him out
some new Feathers, they did so; but withall sent him such strong
Feathers, and so stiff, that when he had placed 'em in their proper
places, and made a very beautiful Engine, it was too heavy for him
to manage: He made a great many Essays at it, and had it placed on
the top of an old Idol Chappel, dedicated to an old Bramyn Saint of
those Countries, called, Phantosteinaschap; in Latin, chap. de Saint
Stephano; or in English, St. Stephen's: Here the Prince try'd all
possible Contrivances, and a vast deal of Money it cost him; but the
Feathers were so stiff they would not work, and the Fire within was
so choaked and smother'd with its own Smoak, for want of due Vent and
Circulation, that it would not burn; so he was oblig'd to take it
down again; and from thence he carried it to his College of Bramyn
Priests, and set it up in one of their Publick Buildings: There he
drew Circles of Ethicks and Politicks, and fell to casting of Figures
and Conjuring, but all would not do, the Feathers could not be
brought to move; and, indeed, I have observ'd, That these Engines
are seldom helpt by Art and Contrivance; there is no way with them,
but to have the People spoke to, to get good Feathers; and they are
easily placed, and perform all the several Motions with the greatest
Ease and Accuracy imaginable; but it must be all Nature; any thing of
Force distorts and dislocates them, and the whole Order is spoiled;
and if there be but one Feather out of place, or pincht, or stands
wrong, the D---l would not ride in the Chariot.
The Prince thus finding his Labour in vain, broke the Engine to
pieces, and sent his Subjects Word what bad Feathers they had sent
him: But the People, who knew it was his own want of Management, and
that the Feathers were good enough, only a little stiff at first, and
with good Usage would have been brought to be fit for use, took it
ill, and never would send him any other as long as he liv'd: However,
it had this good effect upon him, That he never made any more Voyages
to the Moon as long as he reign'd.
