A little later, in another department of the Wilmax Cannery, lumping as a
fruit-distributor among the women, he essayed to carry two boxes of fruit
at a time, and was promptly reproached by the other fruit-lumpers.  It
was palpable malingering; but he was there, he decided, not to change
conditions, but to observe.  So he lumped one box thereafter, and so well
did he study the art of shirking that he wrote a special chapter on it,
with the last several paragraphs devoted to tentative generalizations.
In those six months he worked at many jobs and developed into a very good
imitation of a genuine worker.  He was a natural linguist, and he kept
notebooks, making a scientific study of the workers slang or argot,
until he could talk quite intelligibly.  This language also enabled him
more intimately to follow their mental processes, and thereby to gather
much data for a projected chapter in some future book which he planned to
entitle _Synthesis of Working-Class Psychology_.
Before he arose to the surface from that first plunge into the underworld
he discovered that he was a good actor and demonstrated the plasticity of
his nature.  He was himself astonished at his own fluidity.  Once having
mastered the language and conquered numerous fastidious qualms, he found
that he could flow into any nook of working-class life and fit it so
snugly as to feel comfortably at home.  As he said, in the preface to his
second book, _The Toiler_, he endeavoured really to know the working
people, and the only possible way to achieve this was to work beside
them, eat their food, sleep in their beds, be amused with their
amusements, think their thoughts, and feel their feeling.
He was not a deep thinker.  He had no faith in new theories.  All his
norms and criteria were conventional.  His Thesis on the French
Revolution was noteworthy in college annals, not merely for its
painstaking and voluminous accuracy, but for the fact that it was the
dryest, deadest, most formal, and most orthodox screed ever written on
the subject.  He was a very reserved man, and his natural inhibition was
large in quantity and steel-like in quality.  He had but few friends.  He
was too undemonstrative, too frigid.  He had no vices, nor had any one
ever discovered any temptations.  Tobacco he detested, beer he abhorred,
and he was never known to drink anything stronger than an occasional
light wine at dinner.
When a freshman he had been baptized Ice-Box by his warmer-blooded
fellows.  As a member of the faculty he was known as Cold-Storage.  He
had but one grief, and that was Freddie.  He had earned it when he
played full-back in the Varsity eleven, and his formal soul had never
succeeded in living it down.  Freddie he would ever be, except
officially, and through nightmare vistas he looked into a future when his
world would speak of him as Old Freddie.
For he was very young to be a doctor of sociology, only twenty-seven, and
he looked younger.  In appearance and atmosphere he was a strapping big
college man, smooth-faced and easy-mannered, clean and simple and
wholesome, with a known record of being a splendid athlete and an implied
vast possession of cold culture of the inhibited sort.  He never talked
shop out of class and committee rooms, except later on, when his books
showered him with distasteful public notice and he yielded to the extent
of reading occasional papers before certain literary and economic
societies.
