    DAM.
    _So the great_ Trojan_, by the Hand of Fate,
    And haughty Power of angry_ Juno_'s Hate,
    While with like aim he cross'd the Seas, was tost,     70
    From Shore to Shore, from foreign Coast to Coast:
    Yet safe at last his mighty Point he gain'd;
    In charming promis'd Peace and Splendor reign'd._
    MEL.
    _So may_ Great Charles, _whom equal Glories move,
    Like the great_ Dardan Prince _successful prove:
    Like him, with Honour may he mount the Throne,
    And long enjoy a brighter destin'd Crown._
CHAPTER IV
_Of the Extent of this Storm, and from what Parts it was suppos'd to
come; with some Circumstances as to the Time of it_
As all our Histories are full of the Relations of Tempests and Storms
which have happened in various Parts of the World, I hope it may not be
improper that some of them have been thus observ'd with their remarkable
Effects.
But as I have all along insisted, that no Storm since the Universal
Deluge was like this, either in its Violence or its Duration, so I must
also confirm it as to the particular of its prodigious Extent.
All the Storms and Tempests we have heard of in the World, have been
Gusts or Squauls of Wind that have been carried on in their proper
Channels, and have spent their Force in a shorter space.
We feel nothing here of the Hurricanes of _Barbadoes_, the North-Wests
of _New England_ and _Virginia_, the terrible Gusts of the _Levant_, or
the frequent Tempests of the _North Cape_. When Sir _Francis Wheeler_'s
Squadron perish'd at _Gibralter_, when the City of _Straelsond_ was
almost ruin'd by a Storm, _England_ felt it not, nor was the Air here
disturb'd with the Motion. Even at home we have had Storms of violent
Wind in one part of _England_ which have not been felt in another. And
if what I have been told has any truth in it, in St. _George_'s Channel
there has frequently blown a Storm at Sea right up and down the Channel,
which has been felt on neither Coast, tho it is not above 20 Leagues
from the _English_ to the _Irish_ Shore.
Sir _William Temple_ gives us the Particulars of two terrible Storms in
_Holland_ while he was there; in one of which the great Cathedral Church
at _Utrecht_ was utterly destroy'd: and after that there was a Storm so
violent in _Holland_, that 46 Vessels were cast away at the _Texel_, and
almost all the Men drowned: and yet we felt none of these Storms here.
And for this very reason I have reserv'd an Abridgment of these former
Cases to this place; which as they are recited by Sir _William Temple_,
I shall put them down in his own Words, being not capable to mend them,
and not vain enough to pretend to it.
'I stay'd only a Night at _Antwerp_, which pass'd with so great Thunders
and Lightnings, that I promis'd my self a very fair Day after it, to go
back to _Rotterdam_ in the _States_ Yacht, that still attended me. The
Morning prov'd so; but towards Evening the Sky grew foul, and the Sea
men presag'd ill Weather, and so resolved to lie at Anchor before
_Bergen ap Zoom_, the Wind being cross and little. When the Night was
fallen as black as ever I saw, it soon began to clear up, with the most
violent Flashes of Lightning as well as Cracks of Thunder, that I
believe have ever been heard in our Age and Climate. This continued all
Night; and we felt such a fierce Heat from every great Flash of
Lightning, that the Captain apprehended it would fire his Ship. But
about 8 the next Morning the Wind changed, and came up with so strong a
Gale, that we came to _Rotterdam_ in about 4 Hours, and there found all
Mouths full of the Mischiefs and Accidents that the last Night's Tempest
had occasioned both among the Boats and the Houses, by the Thunder,
Lightning, Hail, or Whirlwinds. But the Day after came Stories to the
_Hague_ from all Parts, of such violent Effects as were almost
incredible: At _Amsterdam_ they were deplorable, many Trees torn up by
the Roots, Ships sunk in the Harbour, and Boats in the Channels; Houses
beaten down, and several People were snatch'd from the Ground as they
walk'd the Streets, and thrown into the Canals. But all was silenc'd by
the Relations from _Utrecht_, where the Great and Ancient Cathedral was
torn in pieces by the Violences of this Storm; and the vast Pillars of
Stone that supported it, were wreathed like a twisted Club, having been
so strongly compos'd and cimented, as rather to suffer such a Change of
Figure than break in pieces, as other Parts of the Fabrick did; hardly
any Church in the Town escap'd the Violence of this Storm; and very few
Houses without the Marks of it; Nor were the Effects of it less
astonishing by the Relations from _France_ and _Brussels_, where the
Damages were infinite, as well from Whirlwinds, Thunder, Lightning, as
from Hail-stones of prodigious Bigness. This was in the Year 1674.
