That afternoon, after a big long siesta, whatd I find in the kitchen,
just as much at home as if she belonged there, but that blamed Indian
girl.  And old Paloma was squatting at the girls feet and rubbing the
girls knees and legs like for rheumatism, which I knew the girl didnt
have from the way Id sized up the walk of her, and keeping time to the
rubbing with a funny sort of gibberish chant.  And I let loose right
there and then.  As Sarah knows, I never could a-bear women around the
houseyoung, unmarried women, I mean.  But it was no go!  Old Paloma
sided with the girl, and said if the girl went she went, too.  Also, she
called me more kinds of a fool than the English language has
accommodation for.  Youd like the Spanish lingo, Sarah, for expressing
yourself in such ways, and youd have liked old Paloma, too.  She was a
good woman, though she didnt have any teeth and her face could kill a
strong mans appetite in the cradle.
I gave in.  I had to.  Except for the excuse that she needed Vahnas
help around the house (which she didnt at all), old Paloma never said
why she stuck up for the girl.  Anyway, Vahna was a quiet thing, never in
the way.  And she never gadded.  Just sat in-doors jabbering with Paloma
and helping with the chores.  But I wasnt long in getting on to that she
was afraid of something.  She would look up, that anxious it hurt,
whenever anybody called, like some of the boys to have a gas or a game of
pedro.  I tried to worm it out of Paloma what was worrying the girl, but
all the old woman did was to look solemn and shake her head like all the
devils in hell was liable to precipitate a visit on us.
And then one day Vahna had a visitor.  Id just come in from a run and
was passing the time of day with herI had to be polite, even if she had
butted in on me and come to live in my house for keepswhen I saw a queer
expression come into her eyes.  In the doorway stood an Indian boy.  He
looked like her, but was younger and slimmer.  She took him into the
kitchen and they must have had a great palaver, for he didnt leave until
after dark.  Inside the week he came back, but I missed him.  When I got
home, Paloma put a fat nugget of gold into my hand, which Vahna had sent
him for.  The blamed thing weighed all of two pounds and was worth more
than five hundred dollars.  She explained that Vahna wanted me to take it
to pay for her keep.  And I had to take it to keep peace in the house.
Then, after a long time, came another visitor.  We were sitting before
the fire
Him and the hussy, quoth Mrs. Jones.
