We had not abundance of Bail Goods on Board, which I was glad of; not that
I made any Conscience or Scruple of carrying them away, if the Ship had
been full of them; but we had no Market for them: Our first Business was to
get a larger Store of Provision on Board than we had, our Voyage being
long; and having acquainted the Men with our Design, and promis'd the new
Men a Share of the Wealth we had there, which made them very hearty to us,
we set Sail: We took in some Beef and Fish, at ------ where we lay fifteen
Days, but out of all Reach of the Castle or Fort; and having done our
Business, sail'd away for the _Canaries_, where we took in some Butts of
Wine, and some fresh Water: With the Guns the Ship had, and those eight I
had put on Board as Merchandize, we had then two and thirty Guns mounted,
bur were but slenderly Mann'd, tho' we gat four _English_ Seamen at the
_Canaries_; but we made up the Loss at _Fiall_, where we made bold with
three _English_ Ships we found, and partly by fair Means, and partly by
Force, shipp'd twelve Men there; after which, without any farther Stop for
Men or Stores, we kept the Coast of _Africa_ on Board 'till we pass'd the
Line, and then stood off to St. _Helena_.
Here we took in fresh Water, and some fresh Provisions, and went directly
for the _Cape of Good Hope_, which we pass'd, stopping only to fill about
22 Butts of Water, and with a fair Gale enter'd the Sea of _Madagascar_,
and sailing up the West Shore, between the Island and the Coast of
_Africa_, came to an Anchor over against our Settlement, about two Leagues
Distance, and made the Signal of our Arrival, with firing twice seven Guns
at the Distance of a Two-Minute Glass between the Seven; when, to our
infinite Joy, the Fort answer'd us, and the Long-boat, the same that
belong'd to our former Ship, came off to us.
We embrac'd one another with inexpressible Joy, and the next Morning I went
on Shore, and our Men brought our Ship safe into Harbour, lying within the
Defence of our Platform, and within two Cables length of the Shore, good
soft Ground, and in eleven Fathom Water, having been three Months and
eighteen Days on the Voyage, and almost three Years absent from the Place.
When I came to look about me here, I found our Men had encreas'd their
Number, and that a Vessel which had been cruising, that is to say, Pirating
on the Coast of _Arabia_, having seven _Dutchmen_, three _Portuguese_, and
five _Englishmen_ on Board, had been cast away upon the Northern Shore of
that Island, and had been taken up and reliev'd by our Men, and liv'd among
them. They told us also of another Crew of _European_ Sailors, which lay,
as we did, on the Main of the Island, and had lost their Ship and were, as
the Islanders told them, above a hundred Men, but we heard nothing who they
were.
