For six nights, I had been worried thus in Master B.s room, when I began
to perceive that things were going wrong.
The first appearance that presented itself was early in the morning when
it was but just daylight and no more.  I was standing shaving at my
glass, when I suddenly discovered, to my consternation and amazement,
that I was shavingnot myselfI am fiftybut a boy.  Apparently Master
B.!
I trembled and looked over my shoulder; nothing there.  I looked again in
the glass, and distinctly saw the features and expression of a boy, who
was shaving, not to get rid of a beard, but to get one.  Extremely
troubled in my mind, I took a few turns in the room, and went back to the
looking-glass, resolved to steady my hand and complete the operation in
which I had been disturbed.  Opening my eyes, which I had shut while
recovering my firmness, I now met in the glass, looking straight at me,
the eyes of a young man of four or five and twenty.  Terrified by this
new ghost, I closed my eyes, and made a strong effort to recover myself.
Opening them again, I saw, shaving his cheek in the glass, my father, who
has long been dead.  Nay, I even saw my grandfather too, whom I never did
see in my life.
Although naturally much affected by these remarkable visitations, I
determined to keep my secret, until the time agreed upon for the present
general disclosure.  Agitated by a multitude of curious thoughts, I
retired to my room, that night, prepared to encounter some new experience
of a spectral character.  Nor was my preparation needless, for, waking
from an uneasy sleep at exactly two oclock in the morning, what were my
feelings to find that I was sharing my bed with the skeleton of Master
B.!
I sprang up, and the skeleton sprang up also.  I then heard a plaintive
voice saying, Where am I?  What is become of me? and, looking hard in
that direction, perceived the ghost of Master B.
The young spectre was dressed in an obsolete fashion: or rather, was not
so much dressed as put into a case of inferior pepper-and-salt cloth,
made horrible by means of shining buttons.  I observed that these buttons
went, in a double row, over each shoulder of the young ghost, and
appeared to descend his back.  He wore a frill round his neck.  His right
hand (which I distinctly noticed to be inky) was laid upon his stomach;
connecting this action with some feeble pimples on his countenance, and
his general air of nausea, I concluded this ghost to be the ghost of a
boy who had habitually taken a great deal too much medicine.
Where am I? said the little spectre, in a pathetic voice.  And why was
I born in the Calomel days, and why did I have all that Calomel given
me?
I replied, with sincere earnestness, that upon my soul I couldnt tell
him.
