For a day or two I was undecided whether to respond to this call, or take
no notice of it.  I was not conscious of the slightest mysterious bias,
influence, or attraction, one way or other.  Of that I am as strictly
sure as of every other statement that I make here.  Ultimately I decided,
as a break in the monotony of my life, that I would go.
The appointed morning was a raw morning in the month of November.  There
was a dense brown fog in Piccadilly, and it became positively black and
in the last degree oppressive East of Temple Bar.  I found the passages
and staircases of the Court-House flaringly lighted with gas, and the
Court itself similarly illuminated.  I _think_ that, until I was
conducted by officers into the Old Court and saw its crowded state, I did
not know that the Murderer was to be tried that day.  I _think_ that,
until I was so helped into the Old Court with considerable difficulty, I
did not know into which of the two Courts sitting my summons would take
me.  But this must not be received as a positive assertion, for I am not
completely satisfied in my mind on either point.
I took my seat in the place appropriated to Jurors in waiting, and I
looked about the Court as well as I could through the cloud of fog and
breath that was heavy in it.  I noticed the black vapour hanging like a
murky curtain outside the great windows, and I noticed the stifled sound
of wheels on the straw or tan that was littered in the street; also, the
hum of the people gathered there, which a shrill whistle, or a louder
song or hail than the rest, occasionally pierced.  Soon afterwards the
Judges, two in number, entered, and took their seats.  The buzz in the
Court was awfully hushed.  The direction was given to put the Murderer to
the bar.  He appeared there.  And in that same instant I recognised in
him the first of the two men who had gone down Piccadilly.
If my name had been called then, I doubt if I could have answered to it
audibly.  But it was called about sixth or eighth in the panel, and I was
by that time able to say, Here!  Now, observe.  As I stepped into the
box, the prisoner, who had been looking on attentively, but with no sign
of concern, became violently agitated, and beckoned to his attorney.  The
prisoners wish to challenge me was so manifest, that it occasioned a
pause, during which the attorney, with his hand upon the dock, whispered
with his client, and shook his head.  I afterwards had it from that
gentleman, that the prisoners first affrighted words to him were, _At
all hazards_, _challenge that man_!  But that, as he would give no
reason for it, and admitted that he had not even known my name until he
heard it called and I appeared, it was not done.
