Such a mighty and valuable thing also was the passing this strait, that
Sir Francis Drake's going through it gave birth to that famous old
wives' saying, viz., that Sir Francis Drake shot the gulf; a saying that
was current in England for many years after Sir Francis Drake was gone
his long journey of all; as if there had been but one gulf in the world,
and that passing it had been a wonder next to that of Hercules cleansing
the Augean stable.
Of this famous place I could not but observe, on this occasion, that, as
ignorance gave it its first fame and made it for so many ages the most
eminent part of the globe, as it was the only passage by which the whole
world could be surrounded, and that it was to every man's honour that
had passed it; so now it is come to the full end or period of its fame,
and will in all probability never have the honour to have any ship,
vessel, or boat, go through it more, while the world remains, unless,
which is very improbable, that part of the world should come to be fully
inhabited.
I know some are of opinion, that, before the full period of the earth's
existence, all the remotest and most barren parts of it shall be
peopled; but I see no ground for such a notion, but many reasons which
would make it appear to be impracticable, and indeed impossible; unless
it should please God to alter the situation of the globe as it respects
the sun, and place it in a direct, as it now moves in an oblique
position; or that a new species of mankind should be produced, who might
be as well qualified to live in the frozen zone as we are in the
temperate, and upon whom the extremity of cold could have no power. I
say, as there are several parts of the globe where this would be
impracticable, I shall say no more than this, that I think it is a
groundless suggestion.
But to return to our voyage; we passed by the mouth of this famous
Strait of Magellan, and those others which were passed through by Le
Maire the Dutch sailor afterwards; and keeping an offing of six or seven
leagues, went away south, till we came into the latitude of 58 deg., when we
would, as we had tried three days before, have stretched away
south-west, to have got into the South Seas, but a strong gale of wind
took us at west-north-west, and though we could, lying near to it,
stretch away to the southward, yet, as it over-blowed, we could make no
westward way; and though we had under us an excellent strong-built
vessel, that, we may say, valued not the waves, and made very good work
of it, yet we went away to leeward in spite of all we could do, and lost
ground apace. We held it out, however, the weather being clear, but
excessive cold, till we found ourselves in the latitude of 64 deg..
