Mr James' second subject, which began to show its white flowers in _The
Other House_ (1896) and went on blossoming long after winter had fallen
on his genius in _The Golden Bowl_, also showed him a son of New
England. For it consists of nothing else than the demonstration, in
varying and exquisitely selected circumstances, that blessed are the
pure in heart; and that was certainly the beatitude that New England,
with its fear of passion and publicity and its respect for spinsters and
pastors of bleached lives, most regarded. Mr James demonstrated it in no
spirit of moral propaganda, but for the technical reason that a
situation is greatly elucidated if one of the persons engaged presents a
consciousness like a polished silver surface, unobscured by any tracery
of selfish preoccupations, which clearly mirrors the other participients
and their movements. Perhaps he thereby discovered the real meaning of
the beatitude, which may be no more than an expression of the obvious
truth that he who receives the fullest impression of the world is likely
to react most valuably to it. Certainly he invented a technical trick
which in its way was as important as the discovery which Ibsen was
making about the same time and which he himself used later in his last
masterpiece, that if one had a really "great" scene one ought to leave
it out and describe it simply by the full relation of its consequences.
He showed that all sorts of things that are amusing enough to write
about and are yet too ignoble for dignified art are lent the required
nobility by being witnessed by grave candour; and that characters whose
special claim is that they are "strange," but whose strangeness cannot
be laboured by direct description lest they become crude, can have the
gaps in their representation filled out by their effect on the simple.
Rose Armiger, in _The Other House_, is made much more horrible because
she exposes her dreadful passion before the simplicity of Tony Bream,
just as a striped poisonous snake would seem more striped and poisonous
if it flickered its black fang from an English rose-bush. The awfulness
of Ida Farange, whose handsome appearance constituted "an abuse of
visibility," of Beale Farange, whose vast scented beard was, since odd
ladies liked to play with it, ultimately his chief source of income,
would never have been important enough to be recorded if they had not
formed a part of _What Maisie Knew_ (1897); and the ensnarement of Sir
Claude, her first step-parent, who was such a good fellow to talk to
when his gaze didn't wander to the dark young woman in red who was
sweeping into dinner or to the shining limbs of a Dieppe fishwife, by
the beautiful, genteel young trollop who was her second step-parent,
would have been a matter too _louche_ for representation if Maisie had
not so beautifully cared for him. The battle over _The Spoils of
Poynton_ (1897), where the greedy mother tries to defend the fine
"things" of her dead husband's house from her imbecile son's vulgar
bride, would be too unrelievedly a history of greed to be borne were not
exquisite Fleda Vetch in the foreground, being fond of the mother,
loving the son. The best ghost story in the world, _The Turn of the
Screw_ (1898), is the more ghostly because the apparitions of the valet
and the governess, appearing at the dangerous place, the top of the
tower on the other side of the lake, that they may tempt the children
they corrupted in their lives to join them in their eternal torment, are
seen by the clear eyes of the honourable and fearless lady who tells the
tale. And _In the Cage_ (1898) has no subject but the purity of the
romantic little telegraphist who sits behind the wire netting at the
grocer's. Her heart is like a well of clear water, through which, when
the handsome Guardsman comes in to send a telegram to his mistress, love
strikes down like a shaft of light.
