Suddenly he thought of his friend Rouvaloff, a young Russian of very
revolutionary tendencies, whom he had met at Lady Windermeres in the
winter.  Count Rouvaloff was supposed to be writing a life of Peter the
Great, and to have come over to England for the purpose of studying the
documents relating to that Tsars residence in this country as a ship
carpenter; but it was generally suspected that he was a Nihilist agent,
and there was no doubt that the Russian Embassy did not look with any
favour upon his presence in London.  Lord Arthur felt that he was just
the man for his purpose, and drove down one morning to his lodgings in
Bloomsbury, to ask his advice and assistance.
So you are taking up politics seriously? said Count Rouvaloff, when
Lord Arthur had told him the object of his mission; but Lord Arthur, who
hated swagger of any kind, felt bound to admit to him that he had not the
slightest interest in social questions, and simply wanted the explosive
machine for a purely family matter, in which no one was concerned but
himself.
Count Rouvaloff looked at him for some moments in amazement, and then
seeing that he was quite serious, wrote an address on a piece of paper,
initialled it, and handed it to him across the table.
Scotland Yard would give a good deal to know this address, my dear
fellow.
They shant have it, cried Lord Arthur, laughing; and after shaking the
young Russian warmly by the hand he ran downstairs, examined the paper,
and told the coachman to drive to Soho Square.
There he dismissed him, and strolled down Greek Street, till he came to a
place called Bayles Court.  He passed under the archway, and found
himself in a curious _cul-de-sac_, that was apparently occupied by a
French Laundry, as a perfect network of clothes-lines was stretched
across from house to house, and there was a flutter of white linen in the
morning air.  He walked right to the end, and knocked at a little green
house.  After some delay, during which every window in the court became a
blurred mass of peering faces, the door was opened by a rather
rough-looking foreigner, who asked him in very bad English what his
business was.  Lord Arthur handed him the paper Count Rouvaloff had given
him.  When the man saw it he bowed, and invited Lord Arthur into a very
shabby front parlour on the ground floor, and in a few moments Herr
Winckelkopf, as he was called in England, bustled into the room, with a
very wine-stained napkin round his neck, and a fork in his left hand.
Count Rouvaloff has given me an introduction to you, said Lord Arthur,
bowing, and I am anxious to have a short interview with you on a matter
of business.  My name is Smith, Mr. Robert Smith, and I want you to
supply me with an explosive clock.
Charmed to meet you, Lord Arthur, said the genial little German,
laughing.  Dont look so alarmed, it is my duty to know everybody, and I
remember seeing you one evening at Lady Windermeres.  I hope her
ladyship is quite well.  Do you mind sitting with me while I finish my
breakfast?  There is an excellent _pâté_, and my friends are kind enough
to say that my Rhine wine is better than any they get at the German
Embassy, and before Lord Arthur had got over his surprise at being
recognised, he found himself seated in the back-room, sipping the most
delicious Marcobrünner out of a pale yellow hock-glass marked with the
Imperial monogram, and chatting in the friendliest manner possible to the
famous conspirator.
