Stealing gently down the little stairs, and assuming the air of some
early lounger who had dropped in from the street, he walked up to the
foot of each pedestal in turn, and attentively examined the figure it
supported.  There could be no doubt about the features of either; he
recollected the exact expression they had worn at different passages of
their conversation, and recognised in every line and lineament the Giants
of the night.  Assured that it was no vision, but that he had heard and
seen with his own proper senses, he walked forth, determining at all
hazards to conceal himself in the Guildhall again that evening.  He
further resolved to sleep all day, so that he might be very wakeful and
vigilant, and above all that he might take notice of the figures at the
precise moment of their becoming animated and subsiding into their old
state, which he greatly reproached himself for not having done already.
CORRESPONDENCE
TO MASTER HUMPHREY
SIR,Before you proceed any further in your account of your friends and
what you say and do when you meet together, excuse me if I proffer my
claim to be elected to one of the vacant chairs in that old room of
yours.  Dont reject me without full consideration; for if you do, you
will be sorry for it afterwardsyou will, upon my life.
I enclose my card, sir, in this letter.  I never was ashamed of my name,
and I never shall be.  I am considered a devilish gentlemanly fellow, and
I act up to the character.  If you want a reference, ask any of the men
at our club.  Ask any fellow who goes there to write his letters, what
sort of conversation mine is.  Ask him if he thinks I have the sort of
voice that will suit your deaf friend and make him hear, if he can hear
anything at all.  Ask the servants what they think of me.  Theres not a
rascal among em, sir, but will tremble to hear my name.  That reminds
medont you say too much about that housekeeper of yours; its a low
subject, damned low.
I tell you what, sir.  If you vote me into one of those empty chairs,
youll have among you a man with a fund of gentlemanly information
thatll rather astonish you.  I can let you into a few anecdotes about
some fine women of title, that are quite high life, sirthe tiptop sort
of thing.  I know the name of every man who has been out on an affair of
honour within the last five-and-twenty years; I know the private
particulars of every cross and squabble that has taken place upon the
turf, at the gaming-table, or elsewhere, during the whole of that time.
I have been called the gentlemanly chronicle.  You may consider yourself
a lucky dog; upon my soul, you may congratulate yourself, though I say
so.
Its an uncommon good notion that of yours, not letting anybody know
where you live.  I have tried it, but there has always been an anxiety
respecting me, which has found me out.  Your deaf friend is a cunning
fellow to keep his name so close.  I have tried that too, but have always
failed.  I shall be proud to make his acquaintancetell him so, with my
compliments.
