Royal Proclamations usually take their course, let the public wonder
never so much.  On the appointed day two citizens of high repute took up
their stations at each of the gates, attended by a party of the city
guard, the main body to enforce the Queens will, and take custody of all
such rebels (if any) as might have the temerity to dispute it: and a few
to bear the standard measures and instruments for reducing all unlawful
sword-blades to the prescribed dimensions.  In pursuance of these
arrangements, Master Graham and another were posted at Lud Gate, on the
hill before St. Pauls.
A pretty numerous company were gathered together at this spot, for,
besides the officers in attendance to enforce the proclamation, there was
a motley crowd of lookers-on of various degrees, who raised from time to
time such shouts and cries as the circumstances called forth.  A spruce
young courtier was the first who approached: he unsheathed a weapon of
burnished steel that shone and glistened in the sun, and handed it with
the newest air to the officer, who, finding it exactly three feet long,
returned it with a bow.  Thereupon the gallant raised his hat and crying,
God save the Queen! passed on amidst the plaudits of the mob.  Then
came anothera better courtier stillwho wore a blade but two feet long,
whereat the people laughed, much to the disparagement of his honours
dignity.  Then came a third, a sturdy old officer of the army, girded
with a rapier at least a foot and a half beyond her Majestys pleasure;
at him they raised a great shout, and most of the spectators (but
especially those who were armourers or cutlers) laughed very heartily at
the breakage which would ensue.  But they were disappointed; for the old
campaigner, coolly unbuckling his sword and bidding his servant carry it
home again, passed through unarmed, to the great indignation of all the
beholders.  They relieved themselves in some degree by hooting a tall
blustering fellow with a prodigious weapon, who stopped short on coming
in sight of the preparations, and after a little consideration turned
back again.  But all this time no rapier had been broken, although it was
high noon, and all cavaliers of any quality or appearance were taking
their way towards Saint Pauls churchyard.
During these proceedings, Master Graham had stood apart, strictly
confining himself to the duty imposed upon him, and taking little heed of
anything beyond.  He stepped forward now as a richly-dressed gentleman on
foot, followed by a single attendant, was seen advancing up the hill.
As this person drew nearer, the crowd stopped their clamour, and bent
forward with eager looks.  Master Graham standing alone in the gateway,
and the stranger coming slowly towards him, they seemed, as it were, set
face to face.  The nobleman (for he looked one) had a haughty and
disdainful air, which bespoke the slight estimation in which he held the
citizen.  The citizen, on the other hand, preserved the resolute bearing
of one who was not to be frowned down or daunted, and who cared very
little for any nobility but that of worth and manhood.  It was perhaps
some consciousness on the part of each, of these feelings in the other,
that infused a more stern expression into their regards as they came
closer together.
