The Peace of _Reswick_ was a ratifying King _James's_ Abdication, and
enrolling in the _French_ Archives, what was before declar'd in the
Convention at _Westminster_. It was now no Time to expostulate with
_Lewis_ XIV. why he had concluded a Peace without mentioning the Person
upon whose Account he had began the War? The Titular King of St.
_Germains_, and the Real one at _Whitehall_, were not irreconcileable,
and the continuation of the Pension was regarded as an unquestionable
mark of the _French_ King's Sincerity, and the unthinking Crew spoke
well of the Master that cramm'd them, never dreaming that they were but
fatten'd for Slaughter, and that under the Disguise of Succouring their
Persons, he might Prey upon their Interest. The _Spanish_ Monarchy was
what _France_ had in their Eye by the Peace of _Reswick_, and the
Restoring of King _James_ was decreed to be the Motive of a War when
they came to a Rupture. Upon the Decease of the King of _Spain_, _Lewis_
XIV diverted Europe with a fresh Scene of Politicks. He convinc'd 'em,
that what he had done at _Reswick_ was a meer Decoy to gain Time and
Breath, and bring greater Designs about. The Allies saw clearly he had
been jugling with two Sham Treaties of Partition, but was underhand
working to engross the Whole, and that the Son and Father at St.
_Germains_ were always to serve to the same Purposes, and stand in the
first Line of his _Manifesto_, to make the War plausible, and raise
Factions in the Territories of _Great-Britain_. This was Fact, for no
sooner were _Things_ ready in _Spain_ and _Flanders_, but King _James_
II departed this Life, which opportunity the _French_ Monarch snatched,
and in a studied Royal Transport, exalted the young Striplings
Expectations at St. _Germains_ by a solemn Protestation, that he wou'd
never sheath his Sword till he saw him upon the Throne of his Ancestors,
by which I suppose he understood no more than that titular Inauguration
which was settled upon his Father at the Peace of _Reswick_. For had not
the Affair of the _Spanish_ Monarchy prompted _France_ to this generous
Declaration in Favour of the Son, 'tis highly probable the _Gallick_
Sword wou'd have rusted in the Scabbard, as it was lock'd up by the
Treaty of _Reswick_, nor had it been now drawn but upon a more
beneficial Provocation, than restoring King _James_, for if it was the
Interest of _France_ to let the Father sit down quietly with the Title,
nothing cou'd supervene to give the Son the Reality. Upon this Basis the
War was renewed again on both Sides, and the Juggle was kept on with the
Court of St. _James_'s, and great Pains were taken by the Emissaries of
_France_, to buoy up King _James_'s Friends both at home and abroad,
that _Lewis_ XIV was Sincere, and wou'd exert himself sooner and later
in their Cause.
The World needs not be put in Mind what Service King _James_ II, Troops
did to _France_ during the War, every Action spoke their Bravery, but
the grand Reform that was made upon the Peace was a sorry recompence for
their Service. _France_ wou'd not entertain 'em, and a Halter was their
Doom if they return'd Home. This was an odd way of obliging King
_James_; I speak not so much upon my own account, (though I was reduc'd
at the same Time) because I had a Sufficiency elsewhere to keep me from
Starving; but it was but a melancholly sight to behold poor Men
strolling upon the Road, not knowing which way to direct their Course,
and begging Alms through those Towns in which a little before they had
Triumph'd in Victory. But the Rod is often thrown away and burnt after
the Child is Whip'd. Upon this Occasion it was that I took leave of
_Mars_, resolving to make use of this Interval of Peace, to satisfy an
old Curiosity to see _England_, a Place as yet I never had beheld. Some
Acquaintance I had contracted at _Dunkirk_, made me willing to take
Shipping there, besides the hopes I had of decoying a pleasant Gentleman
for my Companion, and upon my Arrival I found him in a good Humour, so
we set Sail about three in the Morning, and came under _North Foreland
Point_ about seven the same Day. The Master of the Vessel, though he was
an old Coaster, was not willing to trust himself among the Flats in a
dark Moon, so we lay at Anchor all Night, and in the Morning by peep of
Day, the Wind being pretty favourable, we weigh'd and pursu'd our Voyage
up the River; but being a little too soon for the Tyde, we struck upon a
Sand Bed, and oblig'd to remain ther till the Rise of the Water. I was
all alone in the Master's Cabin when this Accident happen'd, but being
very intent upon a Book, I was not sensible whether we mov'd or stood
still. A Lady who was with the rest of the Passengers upon Deck coming
hastily down, Sir, said she. Do you sit quietly here and we are struck
upon a Sand-Bed? Madame, said I, I did suppose such a Thing, but the
Tyde will cast us off. You suppos'd such a Thing, said she, Why, Sir, we
shall certainly be drown'd, come let us to Prayers. I was not very much
accustom'd to the Sea, yet I imagin'd there could be no great Danger as
long as we had a flowing Tyde, and that it did not blow a Storm: Had the
Water been ebbing and a Storm ensu'd upon it, 'tis probable our Ship,
being none of the strongest, might have been beaten to Pieces among
those Sands. However, I step'd upon Deck to see how Things went; there
was a profound Silence every where, the Passengers were scatter'd here
and there looking one at another, but not speaking a Word; the Master
was walking with his Arms across without Fear, but not without Concern
in his Countenance: I ask'd him how he came to be mistaken in the Tyde?
he answer'd, Accidents would happen'd sometimes, but there was no
Danger. Then running on in a Strain of Sailors Cant, he said, God was at
Sea as well as at Land, that the Lord wou'd protect 'em if they did but
put their Trust in him, and love him as they ought. In the middle of
this moral Lesson, the Ship was gently wafted off the Sands by the Tyde,
and Sails being abroad spread, the Ship sail'd merrily along. 'Twas
surprizing to observe the Alteration in every bodies Countenance; the
Women began to Laugh and Giggle; the Men began to rally one another for
want of Courage; the Sailors began to raise their Note higher and
higher, and the Master of the Ship turn'd his Sermon into a Volley of
Oaths and Curses against his Crew; and thus in an instant, from a
profound Silence we recover'd our selves again to Noise and Hurry. That
Day brought us to _Gravesend_, where we took Boat, and so arriv'd safe
at _London_, though I was not very well pleas'd with those small Boats
People usually pass in from _Gravesend_ to _London_, for I understood
they were often Overset by sudden Gusts of Wind which blow from the
Shoar.
