These were the melancholly Meditations with which the more discerning
part of King _James's_ Friends often entertain'd themselves, but great
care was taken that no such Language shou'd reach the _French_ Court.
Their Honour was too nearly touch'd to pass over such Reflexions in that
severity and remarkable Punishment. I took my self to be pretty Cautious
upon such like Subjects, yet upon this last pretended Descent, King
_James_ being inform'd that I had express'd my self very improperly upon
the Matter, so as to blame the Dilatory Methods of _France_ upon his
Account, I was order'd to be Prisoner in my Lodgings, but releas'd after
two Days Confinement, with a threatening Charge, never more to reflect
upon the _French_ King's Conduct. I do not remember where I spoke the
Words, or in what Company, but I believe I might make a loose upon their
Management who prefer'd the _French_ to the King's own Subjects upon
this Expedition; adding withal, that it look'd as if such Persons had no
Design the Project should take Effect, but this was enough to shew I had
a jealous Mind.
About this Time my Company, with the rest of the Regiment, was order'd
down into _Flanders_, and having been a considerable Time absent I was
commanded to attend there. My Brother-in-law who was one of the Robe in
his own Country, and unacquainted with the Wars, yet was moved with a
certain Curiosity to see a Campaign, and tho' much against my Sister's
Will, resolv'd to accompany me into _Flanders_; yet his Principal Motive
was to make a Halt at _Doway_, whither he had been invited some time
before by a near Relation belonging to the _Scotch_ College in that
University. We went together in the _Cambray_ Coach, and after a short
stay at _Doway_, we proceeded on to the Army, which then was under that
expert and resolute General the Duke of _Luxembourg_. It was certainly a
kind impulse of Heaven that gave me my Brother for a Companion upon this
Occasion; for an Action happening soon after, viz. the famous Battle of
_Launden_, where it was my Misfortune to be dangerously wounded. I had
the Satisfaction of my Brother's Company and Assistance during a tedious
Sickness, which was the Consequence of my Wounds. The _French_ were no
great Gainers by this Battle, though they at long run routed the Enemy,
and kept the Field; for besides the great loss they sustain'd during the
Attack, which far exceeded that of the Allies, the Victory was not well
pursu'd. It was my Post to reinforce a Party of _French_ Fusiliers, who
were order'd to Storm the Intrenchmenent, in which Service a Bullet was
lodg'd in my Shoulder, which besides disabling me on one Side, the loss
of Blood I suffer'd was so great, that I was not able to support my
self, but drop'd down and had been trampled to Death under my own Mens
Feet, had not a strong Body'd Drummer hurried me out of the Croud upon
his Back; but he carried me off with such Precipitation, that one of the
Enemies Troopers seeing me at a Distance, and thinking me to be somebody
of Consequence, sprung after me upon his Gelding, and carried both me
and the Drummer into a Village on the left Hand of the Attack, where
several Squadrons were posted. The commanding Officer who was a Colonel
of the _English_ Guards, finding, I was of the _British_ Nation, order'd
me to be laid in a Barn with a Centinel to guard me, and the Surgeon of
the Regiment was immediately call'd for to dress and tie up my Wounds. I
had not been in that Lodging above an Hour, but the Village was attack'd
by the _French_ Gens d'Arms, and there was a Tryal of Skill between the
Flower of both the Armies, in which Action the _French_ at last were
Superior, so I was releas'd, but it was equal to me in the Condition I
was in whose Hands I fell into, for I had so many fainting Fits which
succeeded one another, that I expected not to survive any of 'em. My
Brother, whom I desired to go to _Loraine_ during the Action had a Mind
to be a little nearer, so remain'd with the Baggage, but met not with me
till the next Day, that we both went in a Waggon to his Lodgings in
_Loraine_, where I was confin'd three Months before I was able to
Travel.
