'Tis not a being in a Battle that makes a Person a capable Judge how to
describe it; every Officer has his Post which he must not depart from,
and though he may be able to describe the Situation of the Troops before
an Engagement, yet afterwards during the Fight, there is so much Noise,
Smoak and Confusion, that for my part, I scarce can give a true
Narration of what happen'd within a dozen Yards compass. Upon this
Account, I cannot tell in what manner the _French_ Troops behav'd
themselves, but I was inform'd they made a tollerable Stand against King
_William_'s Army, but that they quickly chang'd it into a running Fight,
and very dexterously convey'd both King _James_ and themselves out of
Danger, and in a little time out of the Kingdom, directing their March
to the next Seaport Town, which was not in the Enemies Hands, from
whence they found their way Home. If these Troops were serviceable at
the _Boyne_, they certainly might have been much more useful, if they
had remain'd and assisted the _Irish_ the remainder of the War; but they
had shown themselves, and that was enough to answer the politick Ends
for which they were sent. 'Tis suppos'd after this Defeat at the
_Boyne_, that King _James_ was aware of the _French_ Politics, and so
would ne'er think of returning in Person again into _Ireland_, it being
abundantly sufficient if he left two or three active Generals among 'em
to Alarm the Enemy and do the Drudgery of the _French_ Court, in making
a Diversion to favour his Conquests in other Parts of the World. But to
return to the Series of my own Story, I had now obtain'd Liberty of the
City of _Dublin_ upon Paroll, and spent my Life pretty agreeable,
especially when I understood that a kind of a Cartel was fix'd, and
there was no Danger of a Halter. My long stay in _Dublin_ brought me
acquainted with several General Officers of King _William_'s Army, who
were my Countrymen and well acquainted with my Family. The great Respect
they showed me, was, as I perceiv'd at long run, in order to debauch me
from King _James_'s Service; but it was not in my power at that time, to
remove the Scruples I was entangled in as to the Revolution; besides I
had other Motives urgent enough not to engage in the _English_ Service,
till I had seen a little more Abroad. But in the midst of all the
Disasters I met with, nothing affected me with a more sensible Grief
than the Thoughts of _Lewis_ the XIVth's Insincerity, for though it only
rid my Mind in the Nature of a Scruple or first Impression, yet I found
it grow daily more and more upon me, and often in the height of my
Diversions it lay upon my Stomach like an indigested Meal; yet at the
same time I durst not mutter the least of this Matter to the greatest
Confident I had in the World; for I was sensible what would be the
Consequence of such a Liberty of Speech, and that nothing less than
perpetual Imprisonment in the _Bastile_ must have atton'd for the Crime,
and that King _James_ wou'd have look'd upon himself as oblig'd to have
justify'd the Conduct of _France_, though perhaps he lay under the same
Jealousies with myself in regard of _French_ Politics. How often have I,
when I have been alone, exaggerated my Folly in engaging in a Cause,
which the principal Agent never design'd to bring to an Issue? but then
again I have corrected my self for giving way to a false Impression, and
condemning the Conduct of so many Thousands who had more Experience than
I could lay claim to, and yet willingly went all the Lengths of the
_French_ Court. Now as I always had a great Respect for Men of Years and
Experience, so I was resolv'd to silence all the Scruples relating to
_French_ Politicks, and see an end of the _Irish_ War, not so much under
the Influence of a _French_ Power (which never did any real Service to
King _James_ in _Ireland_) but because so many worthy Gentlemen eagerly
pursue the Cause, whom I had Reason to think were better Judges of such
high Matters than my self. And what in the next place I was to
undertake, was how to be releas'd from my Confinement, in which I cou'd
find no Difficulty besides a breach of Paroll, my Person being every Day
at Liberty, but understanding that several Persons in the same
Circumstances with my self, were partly conniv'd at when they made their
Escape. I took the same Method, and rather chose to walk off, than wait
to be exchang'd, or Bribe for my Enlargement. Perhaps the Reader will
expect here to be entertain'd with the remaining Part of the _Irish_
War, especially where I was employ'd; but he must be content to be
inform'd in General, That as I made it a Law with my self ne'er to omit
any Occasion of improving my self in the Art of War, so I took
particular care not to be upon any Foreign Duty in the Day of Action. I
was wounded at the Battle of _Aghram_, where I had one of my Legs broke,
and lost two Fingers with the cut of a Sabre. I was at the first Siege
of _Limerick_, and help'd to surprize the Enemy's flying Camp and
Provisions they were carrying to supply the main Army that was carrying
on the Siege. Afterwards I entred the Town, and remain'd there during
the Siege, having the Liberty to pass over into _France_ with the rest
of the _Irish_ Troops upon the Articles of _Limerick_; but there was one
remarkable Passage happen'd to me during the Siege of that Town, which I
cannot dispense with my self to pass over in Silence; it was rather a
casual Matter, than a Design laid, however it equally answer'd the end.
At one of the Sallies, in which we design'd to overthrow a Mount they
had made to raise a Battery upon, after a smart Engagement, it being in
the Night, I had the opportunity to step aside and strip a _Dutch_
Granadier, and immediately putting on his Cloaths I mingled my self with
the Enemy's Battalions as they drew back towards their Camp, thus
unperceiv'd I had the opportunity the next Morning to view their Works
and make my Remarks. But now I was somewhat at a loss how to make a hand
of this Stratagem and get back into the Town, nor was I less concern'd
how to avoid being discover'd as not belonging to the Enemy; but the
Confusion they were in the next Day in burying their Dead and repairing
their Works, made me pass undiscover'd till Night, so about Nine at
Night when it was throughly dark, I stole to that Side of the Town which
lies next to the Sea, and swimming over undiscover'd, I crept under the
Wall, and calling softly upon the next Centinel, I inform'd him who I
was, bidding him call to the Captain of the next Guard, and bring a Rope
and two or three Soldiers to hall me up. I was very welcome to the
Garrison, for 'twas suppos'd, I was either kill'd or taken Prisoner in
the Sally. This Stratagem, though I had no Design in it at our attacking
the Enemy, it being only a sudden Thought, yet it had a very good Event;
for the next Sally we made, as I had observ'd, the weakest Part of the
Besiegers Works, so I lead a Party of Resolute Men that way, who lost no
Time, but levell'd all their Works, and dragg'd a considerable Booty
into the Town.
