Some few Days after, attending by Direction at the Secretary's Office,
with Mr. _Harris_, there came in a _Dutchman_, spluttering and making a
great Noise, that he was sure he could discover one of the Conspirators;
but the Mein and the Behaviour of the Man, would not give any Body Leave
to give him any Credit or Regard. However, the Man persisting in his
Assertions, I spoke to Mr. _Harris_ to take him aside, and ask him what
Sort of a Person he was; _Harris_ did so; and the _Dutchman_ describing
him, says _Harris_, returning to me, I'll be hang'd if it be not
_Blackburn_. Upon which we had him question'd somewhat more narrowly;
when having no room to doubt, and understanding where he was, Colonel
_Rivet_ of the Guards was sent for, and order'd to go along with us to
seize him. We went accordingly; and it proving to be _Blackburn_, the
_Dutchman_ had five Hundred Pounds, and the Colonel and others the
Remainder. _Cassels_ and _Blackburn_, if still alive, are in _Newgate_,
confin'd by Act of Parliament, one only Witness, which was _Harris_,
being producible against them.
When _Blackburn_ was seiz'd, I found in the Chamber with him, one
_Davison_, a Watch-maker, living in _Holbourn_. I carry'd him along with
me to the Secretary of State; but nothing on his Examination appearing
against him, he was immediately discharg'd. He offer'd afterwards to
present me with a fine Watch of his own making, which I refus'd; and he
long after own'd the Obligation.
So soon as the Depth of this Plot was fathom'd, and the intended Evil
provided against, as well as prevented, King _William_ went over into
_Flanders_, and our Regiment thereupon receiv'd Orders for their
immediate Return. Nothing of any Moment occurr'd till our Arrival at our
old Quarters, the _Camerlins_, where we lay dispers'd amongst the
Country Boors or Farmers, as heretofore. However, for our better
Security in those Quarters, and to preserve us from the Excursions of
the neighbouring Garrison of Furnes, we were oblig'd to keep an
Out-guard at a little Place call'd _Shoerbeck_. This Guard was every
forty-eight Hours chang'd, and remounted with a Captain, a Lieutenant,
an Ensign, and threescore Men.
When it came to my Turn to relieve that Guard, and for that Purpose I
was arriv'd at my Post, it appear'd to me with the Face of a Place of
Debauch, rather than Business; there being too visible Tokens, that the
hard Duty of both Officers and Soldiers had been that of hard Drinking,
the foulest Error that a Soldier can commit, especially when on his
Guard.
To confirm my Apprehensions, a little after I had taken Possession of my
Guard, the Man of the House related to me such Passages, and so many
of'em, that satisfy'd me, that if ten sober Men had made the Attack,
they might have fairly knock'd all my Predecessors of the last Guard on
the Head, without much Difficulty. However, his Account administer'd
Matter of Caution to me, and put me upon taking a narrower View of our
Situation. In consequence whereof, at Night I plac'd a Centinel a
Quarter of a Mile in the Rear, and such other Centinels as I thought
necessary and convenient in other Places; with Orders, that upon Sight
of an Enemy the Centinel near should fire; and that upon hearing that,
all the other Centinels, as well as he, should hasten in to strengthen
our Main Guard.
