Accordingly I went up to the Door, which they had barricaded, and made
up with great Stones; when they told me they were ready to surrender
upon Condition of obtaining Mercy. I return'd to Sir _Thomas_; and
telling him what I had done, and the Consequence of it, and the Message
they had desir'd me to deliver (a great many of the _Highland_
Gentlemen, not of this Party, being with him) Sir _Thomas_, in a high
Voice, and broad _Scotch_, best to be heard and understood, order'd me
back to tell 'em, _He would cut them all to Pieces, for their Murder of
two of his Grenadiers, after his Proffer of Quarter_.
I was returning full of these melancholy Tidings, when Sir _Thomas_,
advancing after me a little Distance from the rest of the Company; _Hark
ye, Sir_, says he, _I believe there may be among 'em some of our old
Acquaintance_ (for we had serv'd together in the Service of the _States_
in _Flanders_) _therefore tell them they shall have good Quarter_. I
very willingly carry'd back a Message to much chang'd to my Mind; and
upon delivering of it, without the least Hesitation, they threw down the
Barricado, open'd the Door, and out came one _Brody_, who, as he then
told me, had had a Piece of his Nose taken off by one of my Grenadoes. I
carry'd him to Sir _Thomas_, who confirming my Message, they all came
out, and surrendered themselves Prisoners. This happen'd on _May Day_ in
the Morning; for which Reason we return'd to _Inverness_ with our
Prisoners, and Boughs in our Hats; and the _Highlanders_ never held up
their Heads so high after this Defeat.
Upon this Success Sir _Thomas_ wrote to Court, giving a full Account of
the whole Action. In which being pleas'd to make mention of my
Behaviour, with some Particularities, I had soon after a Commission
order'd me for a Company in the Regiment under the Command of Brigadier
_Tiffin_.
My Commission being made out, sign'd, and sent to me, I repair'd
immediately to _Portsmouth_, where the Regiment lay in Garrison. A few
Days after I had been there, Admiral _Russel_ arriv'd with the Fleet,
and anchor'd at St. _Hellen's_, where he remain'd about a Week. On the
18th of _May_ the whole Fleet set Sail; and it being my Turn the same
Day to mount the Main Guard, I was going the Rounds very early, when I
heard great shooting at Sea. I went directly to acquaint the Governor,
and told him my Sentiments, that the two contending Fleets were actually
engag'd, which indeed prov'd true; for that very Night a Pinnace, which
came from our Fleet, brought News that Admiral _Russel_ had engag'd the
_French_ Admiral _Turvile_; and, after a long and sharp Dispute, was
making after them to their own Coasts.
The next Day, towards Evening, several other Expresses arriv'd, one
after another, all agreeing in the Defeat of the _French_ Fleet, and in
the Particulars of the burning their _Rising Sun_, together with many
other of their Men of War, at _la Hogue_. All which Expresses were
immediately forwarded to Court by Mr. _Gibson_, our Governor.
