But it is not enough that a work of art should conform to the aesthetic
demands of the age: there should be also about it, if it is to give us
any permanent delight, the impress of a distinct individuality.  Whatever
work we have in the nineteenth century must rest on the two poles of
personality and perfection.  And so in this little volume, by separating
the earlier and more simple work from the work that is later and stronger
and possesses increased technical power and more artistic vision, one
might weave these disconnected poems, these stray and scattered threads,
into one fiery-coloured strand of life, noting first a boy's mere
gladness of being young, with all its simple joy in field and flower, in
sunlight and in song, and then the bitterness of sudden sorrow at the
ending by Death of one of the brief and beautiful friendships of one's
youth, with all those unanswered longings and questionings unsatisfied by
which we vex, so uselessly, the marble face of death; the artistic
contrast between the discontented incompleteness of the spirit and the
complete perfection of the style that expresses it forming the chief
element of the aesthetic charm of these particular poems;--and then the
birth of Love, and all the wonder and the fear and the perilous delight
of one on whose boyish brows the little wings of love have beaten for the
first time; and the love-songs, so dainty and delicate, little swallow-
flights of music, and full of such fragrance and freedom that they might
all be sung in the open air and across moving water; and then autumn,
coming with its choirless woods and odorous decay and ruined loveliness,
Love lying dead; and the sense of the mere pity of it.
One might stop there, for from a young poet one should ask for no deeper
chords of life than those that love and friendship make eternal for us;
and the best poems in the volume belong clearly to a later time, a time
when these real experiences become absorbed and gathered up into a form
which seems from such real experiences to be the most alien and the most
remote; when the simple expression of joy or sorrow suffices no longer,
and lives rather in the stateliness of the cadenced metre, in the music
and colour of the linked words, than in any direct utterance; lives, one
might say, in the perfection of the form more than in the pathos of the
feeling.  And yet, after the broken music of love and the burial of love
in the autumn woods, we can trace that wandering among strange people,
and in lands unknown to us, by which we try so pathetically to heal the
hurts of the life we know, and that pure and passionate devotion to Art
which one gets when the harsh reality of life has too suddenly wounded
one, and is with discontent or sorrow marring one's youth, just as often,
I think, as one gets it from any natural joy of living; and that curious
intensity of vision by which, in moments of overmastering sadness and
despair ungovernable, artistic things will live in one's memory with a
vivid realism caught from the life which they help one to forget--an old
grey tomb in Flanders with a strange legend on it, making one think how,
perhaps, passion does live on after death; a necklace of blue and amber
beads and a broken mirror found in a girl's grave at Rome, a marble image
of a boy habited like Eros, and with the pathetic tradition of a great
king's sorrow lingering about it like a purple shadow,--over all these
the tired spirit broods with that calm and certain joy that one gets when
one has found something that the ages never dull and the world cannot
harm; and with it comes that desire of Greek things which is often an
artistic method of expressing one's desire for perfection; and that
longing for the old dead days which is so modern, so incomplete, so
touching, being, in a way, the inverted torch of Hope, which burns the
hand it should guide; and for many things a little sadness, and for all
things a great love; and lastly, in the pinewood by the sea, once more
the quick and vital pulse of joyous youth leaping and laughing in every
line, the frank and fearless freedom of wave and wind waking into fire
life's burnt-out ashes and into song the silent lips of pain,--how
clearly one seems to see it all, the long colonnade of pines with sea and
sky peeping in here and there like a flitting of silver; the open place
in the green, deep heart of the wood with the little moss-grown altar to
the old Italian god in it; and the flowers all about, cyclamen in the
shadowy places, and the stars of the white narcissus lying like
snow-flakes over the grass, where the quick, bright-eyed lizard starts by
the stone, and the snake lies coiled lazily in the sun on the hot sand,
and overhead the gossamer floats from the branches like thin, tremulous
threads of gold,--the scene is so perfect for its motive, for surely
here, if anywhere, the real gladness of life might be revealed to one's
youth--the gladness that comes, not from the rejection, but from the
absorption, of all passion, and is like that serene calm that dwells in
the faces of the Greek statues, and which despair and sorrow cannot
touch, but intensify only.
