In a grotesque squareness of outline, and impossibility of perspective,
they are not unlike the woodcuts in old books; but they were
oil-paintings, and the artist, like the painter of the Primrose family,
had not been sparing of his colours.  In one, a lady was having a toe
amputatedan operation which a saintly personage had sailed into the
room, upon a couch, to superintend.  In another, a lady was lying in bed,
tucked up very tight and prim, and staring with much composure at a
tripod, with a slop-basin on it; the usual form of washing-stand, and the
only piece of furniture, besides the bedstead, in her chamber.  One would
never have supposed her to be labouring under any complaint, beyond the
inconvenience of being miraculously wide awake, if the painter had not
hit upon the idea of putting all her family on their knees in one corner,
with their legs sticking out behind them on the floor, like boot-trees.
Above whom, the Virgin, on a kind of blue divan, promised to restore the
patient.  In another case, a lady was in the very act of being run over,
immediately outside the city walls, by a sort of piano-forte van.  But
the Madonna was there again.  Whether the supernatural appearance had
startled the horse (a bay griffin), or whether it was invisible to him, I
dont know; but he was galloping away, ding dong, without the smallest
reverence or compunction.  On every picture Ex voto was painted in
yellow capitals in the sky.
Though votive offerings were not unknown in Pagan Temples, and are
evidently among the many compromises made between the false religion and
the true, when the true was in its infancy, I could wish that all the
other compromises were as harmless.  Gratitude and Devotion are Christian
qualities; and a grateful, humble, Christian spirit may dictate the
observance.
Hard by the cathedral stands the ancient Palace of the Popes, of which
one portion is now a common jail, and another a noisy barrack: while
gloomy suites of state apartments, shut up and deserted, mock their own
old state and glory, like the embalmed bodies of kings.  But we neither
went there, to see state rooms, nor soldiers quarters, nor a common
jail, though we dropped some money into a prisoners box outside, whilst
the prisoners, themselves, looked through the iron bars, high up, and
watched us eagerly.  We went to see the ruins of the dreadful rooms in
which the Inquisition used to sit.
A little, old, swarthy woman, with a pair of flashing black eyes,proof
that the world hadnt conjured down the devil within her, though it had
had between sixty and seventy years to do it in,came out of the Barrack
Cabaret, of which she was the keeper, with some large keys in her hands,
and marshalled us the way that we should go.  How she told us, on the
way, that she was a Government Officer (_concierge du palais a
apostolique_), and had been, for I dont know how many years; and how she
had shown these dungeons to princes; and how she was the best of dungeon
demonstrators; and how she had resided in the palace from an infant,had
been born there, if I recollect right,I neednt relate.  But such a
fierce, little, rapid, sparkling, energetic she-devil I never beheld.
She was alight and flaming, all the time.  Her action was violent in the
extreme.  She never spoke, without stopping expressly for the purpose.
She stamped her feet, clutched us by the arms, flung herself into
attitudes, hammered against walls with her keys, for mere emphasis: now
whispered as if the Inquisition were there still: now shrieked as if she
were on the rack herself; and had a mysterious, hag-like way with her
forefinger, when approaching the remains of some new horrorlooking back
and walking stealthily, and making horrible grimacesthat might alone
have qualified her to walk up and down a sick mans counterpane, to the
exclusion of all other figures, through a whole fever.
