In truth, our watering-place itself has been left somewhat high and dry
by the tide of years.  Concerned as we are for its honour, we must
reluctantly admit that the time when this pretty little semicircular
sweep of houses, tapering off at the end of the wooden pier into a point
in the sea, was a gay place, and when the lighthouse overlooking it shone
at daybreak on company dispersing from public balls, is but dimly
traditional now.  There is a bleak chamber in our watering-place which is
yet called the Assembly Rooms, and understood to be available on hire
for balls or concerts; and, some few seasons since, an ancient little
gentleman came down and stayed at the hotel, who said that he had danced
there, in bygone ages, with the Honourable Miss Peepy, well known to have
been the Beauty of her day and the cruel occasion of innumerable duels.
But he was so old and shrivelled, and so very rheumatic in the legs, that
it demanded more imagination than our watering-place can usually muster,
to believe him; therefore, except the Master of the Rooms (who to this
hour wears knee-breeches, and who confirmed the statement with tears in
his eyes), nobody did believe in the little lame old gentleman, or even
in the Honourable Miss Peepy, long deceased.
As to subscription balls in the Assembly Rooms of our watering-place now,
red-hot cannon balls are less improbable.  Sometimes, a misguided
wanderer of a Ventriloquist, or an Infant Phenomenon, or a juggler, or
somebody with an Orrery that is several stars behind the time, takes the
place for a night, and issues bills with the name of his last town lined
out, and the name of ours ignominiously written in, but you may be sure
this never happens twice to the same unfortunate person.  On such
occasions the discoloured old Billiard Table that is seldom played at
(unless the ghost of the Honourable Miss Peepy plays at pool with other
ghosts) is pushed into a corner, and benches are solemnly constituted
into front seats, back seats, and reserved seatswhich are much the same
after you have paidand a few dull candles are lightedwind
permittingand the performer and the scanty audience play out a short
match which shall make the other most low-spiritedwhich is usually a
drawn game.  After that, the performer instantly departs with maledictory
expressions, and is never heard of more.
But the most wonderful feature of our Assembly Rooms, is, that an annual
sale of Fancy and other China, is announced here with mysterious
constancy and perseverance.  Where the china comes from, where it goes
to, why it is annually put up to auction when nobody ever thinks of
bidding for it, how it comes to pass that it is always the same china,
whether it would not have been cheaper, with the sea at hand, to have
thrown it away, say in eighteen hundred and thirty, are standing enigmas.
Every year the bills come out, every year the Master of the Rooms gets
into a little pulpit on a table, and offers it for sale, every year
nobody buys it, every year it is put away somewhere till next year, when
it appears again as if the whole thing were a new idea.  We have a faint
remembrance of an unearthly collection of clocks, purporting to be the
work of Parisian and Genevese artistschiefly bilious-faced clocks,
supported on sickly white crutches, with their pendulums dangling like
lame legsto which a similar course of events occurred for several years,
until they seemed to lapse away, of mere imbecility.
