THE POOR RELATIONS STORY.
[1852]
HE was very reluctant to take precedence of so many respected members of
the family, by beginning the round of stories they were to relate as they
sat in a goodly circle by the Christmas fire; and he modestly suggested
that it would be more correct if John our esteemed host (whose health
he begged to drink) would have the kindness to begin.  For as to himself,
he said, he was so little used to lead the way that really  But as they
all cried out here, that he must begin, and agreed with one voice that he
might, could, would, and should begin, he left off rubbing his hands, and
took his legs out from under his armchair, and did begin.
I have no doubt (said the poor relation) that I shall surprise the
assembled members of our family, and particularly John our esteemed host
to whom we are so much indebted for the great hospitality with which he
has this day entertained us, by the confession I am going to make.  But,
if you do me the honour to be surprised at anything that falls from a
person so unimportant in the family as I am, I can only say that I shall
be scrupulously accurate in all I relate.
I am not what I am supposed to be.  I am quite another thing.  Perhaps
before I go further, I had better glance at what I _am_ supposed to be.
It is supposed, unless I mistakethe assembled members of our family will
correct me if I do, which is very likely (here the poor relation looked
mildly about him for contradiction); that I am nobodys enemy but my own.
That I never met with any particular success in anything.  That I failed
in business because I was unbusiness-like and credulousin not being
prepared for the interested designs of my partner.  That I failed in
love, because I was ridiculously trustfulin thinking it impossible that
Christiana could deceive me.  That I failed in my expectations from my
uncle Chill, on account of not being as sharp as he could have wished in
worldly matters.  That, through life, I have been rather put upon and
disappointed in a general way.  That I am at present a bachelor of
between fifty-nine and sixty years of age, living on a limited income in
the form of a quarterly allowance, to which I see that John our esteemed
host wishes me to make no further allusion.
The supposition as to my present pursuits and habits is to the following
effect.
I live in a lodging in the Clapham Roada very clean back room, in a very
respectable housewhere I am expected not to be at home in the day-time,
unless poorly; and which I usually leave in the morning at nine oclock,
on pretence of going to business.  I take my breakfastmy roll and
butter, and my half-pint of coffeeat the old-established coffee-shop
near Westminster Bridge; and then I go into the CityI dont know whyand
sit in Garraways Coffee House, and on Change, and walk about, and look
into a few offices and counting-houses where some of my relations or
acquaintance are so good as to tolerate me, and where I stand by the fire
if the weather happens to be cold.  I get through the day in this way
until five oclock, and then I dine: at a cost, on the average, of one
and threepence.  Having still a little money to spend on my evenings
entertainment, I look into the old-established coffee-shop as I go home,
and take my cup of tea, and perhaps my bit of toast.  So, as the large
hand of the clock makes its way round to the morning hour again, I make
my way round to the Clapham Road again, and go to bed when I get to my
lodgingfire being expensive, and being objected to by the family on
account of its giving trouble and making a dirt.
