He travelled along a rather dark path for some little time, without
meeting anything, until at last he came to a beautiful child.  So he said
to the child, What do you do here?  And the child said, I am always at
play.  Come and play with me!
So, he played with that child, the whole day long, and they were very
merry.  The sky was so blue, the sun was so bright, the water was so
sparkling, the leaves were so green, the flowers were so lovely, and they
heard such singing-birds and saw so many butteries, that everything was
beautiful.  This was in fine weather.  When it rained, they loved to
watch the falling drops, and to smell the fresh scents.  When it blew, it
was delightful to listen to the wind, and fancy what it said, as it came
rushing from its homewhere was that, they wondered!whistling and
howling, driving the clouds before it, bending the trees, rumbling in the
chimneys, shaking the house, and making the sea roar in fury.  But, when
it snowed, that was best of all; for, they liked nothing so well as to
look up at the white flakes falling fast and thick, like down from the
breasts of millions of white birds; and to see how smooth and deep the
drift was; and to listen to the hush upon the paths and roads.
They had plenty of the finest toys in the world, and the most astonishing
picture-books: all about scimitars and slippers and turbans, and dwarfs
and giants and genii and fairies, and blue-beards and bean-stalks and
riches and caverns and forests and Valentines and Orsons: and all new and
all true.
But, one day, of a sudden, the traveller lost the child.  He called to
him over and over again, but got no answer.  So, he went upon his road,
and went on for a little while without meeting anything, until at last he
came to a handsome boy.  So, he said to the boy, What do you do here?
And the boy said, I am always learning.  Come and learn with me.
So he learned with that boy about Jupiter and Juno, and the Greeks and
the Romans, and I dont know what, and learned more than I could tellor
he either, for he soon forgot a great deal of it.  But, they were not
always learning; they had the merriest games that ever were played.  They
rowed upon the river in summer, and skated on the ice in winter; they
were active afoot, and active on horseback; at cricket, and all games at
ball; at prisoners base, hare and hounds, follow my leader, and more
sports than I can think of; nobody could beat them.  They had holidays
too, and Twelfth cakes, and parties where they danced till midnight, and
real Theatres where they saw palaces of real gold and silver rise out of
the real earth, and saw all the wonders of the world at once.  As to
friends, they had such dear friends and so many of them, that I want the
time to reckon them up.  They were all young, like the handsome boy, and
were never to be strange to one another all their lives through.
