Yours is an excellent plan, I said. What is your solution of the
problem?
The commonest type of idle mouths, said Arthur, is no doubt due to
money being left by parents to their own children. So I imagined a
maneither exceptionally clever, or exceptionally strong and
industriouswho had contributed so much valuable labour to the needs of
the community that its equivalent, in clothes, &c., was (say) five times
as much as he needed for himself. We cannot deny his _absolute_ right to
give the superfluous wealth as he chooses. So, if he leaves _four_
children behind him (say two sons and two daughters), with enough of all
the necessaries of life to last them a life-time, I cannot see that the
_community_ is in any way wronged if they choose to do nothing in life
but to eat, drink, and be merry. Most certainly, the community could
not fairly say, in reference to _them_, _if a man will not work,
neither let him eat_. Their reply would be crushing. The labour has
already been _done_, which is a fair equivalent for the food we are
eating; and you have had the benefit of it. On what principle of justice
can you demand _two_ quotas of work for _one_ quota of food?
Yet surely, I said, there is something wrong _somewhere_, if these
four people are well able to do useful work, and if that work is
actually _needed_ by the community, and they elect to sit idle?
I think there _is_, said Arthur: but it seems to me to arise from a
Law of Godthat every one shall do as much as he can to help othersand
not from any _rights_, on the part of the community, to exact labour as
an equivalent for food that has already been fairly earned.
I suppose the _second_ form of the problem is where the idle mouths
possess _money_ instead of _material_ wealth?
Yes, replied Arthur: and I think the simplest case is that of
_paper_-money. _Gold_ is itself a form of material wealth; but a
bank-note is merely a _promise_ to hand over so much _material_ wealth
when called upon to do so. The father of these four idle mouths, had
done (let us say) five thousand pounds worth of useful work for the
community. In return for this, the community had given him what amounted
to a written promise to hand over, whenever called upon to do so, five
thousand pounds worth of food, &c. Then, if he only uses _one_ thousand
pounds worth himself, and leaves the rest of the notes to his children,
surely they have a full right to _present_ these written promises, and
to say hand over the food, for which the equivalent labour has been
already done. Now I think _this_ case well worth stating, publicly and
clearly. I should like to drive it into the heads of those Socialists
who are priming our ignorant paupers with such sentiments as Look at
them bloated haristocrats! Doing not a stroke o work for theirselves,
and living on the sweat of _our_ brows! I should like to _force_ them
to see that the _money_, which those haristocrats are spending,
represents so much labour _already done_ for the community, and whose
equivalent, in _material_ wealth, is _due from the community_.
