There must have been full four thousand people present.  Carefully
estimating the pit alone, I could bring it out as holding little less
than fourteen hundred.  Every part of the house was well filled, and I
had not found it easy to make my way along the back of the boxes to where
I sat.  The chandeliers in the ceiling were lighted; there was no light
on the stage; the orchestra was empty.  The green curtain was down, and,
packed pretty closely on chairs on the small space of stage before it,
were some thirty gentlemen, and two or three ladies.  In the centre of
these, in a desk or pulpit covered with red baize, was the presiding
minister.  The kind of rostrum he occupied will be very well understood,
if I liken it to a boarded-up fireplace turned towards the audience, with
a gentleman in a black surtout standing in the stove and leaning forward
over the mantelpiece.
A portion of Scripture was being read when I went in.  It was followed by
a discourse, to which the congregation listened with most exemplary
attention and uninterrupted silence and decorum.  My own attention
comprehended both the auditory and the speaker, and shall turn to both in
this recalling of the scene, exactly as it did at the time.
A very difficult thing, I thought, when the discourse began, to speak
appropriately to so large an audience, and to speak with tact.  Without
it, better not to speak at all.  Infinitely better, to read the New
Testament well, and to let _that_ speak.  In this congregation there is
indubitably one pulse; but I doubt if any power short of genius can touch
it as one, and make it answer as one.
I could not possibly say to myself as the discourse proceeded, that the
minister was a good speaker.  I could not possibly say to myself that he
expressed an understanding of the general mind and character of his
audience.  There was a supposititious working-man introduced into the
homily, to make supposititious objections to our Christian religion and
be reasoned down, who was not only a very disagreeable person, but
remarkably unlike lifevery much more unlike it than anything I had seen
in the pantomime.  The native independence of character this artisan was
supposed to possess, was represented by a suggestion of a dialect that I
certainly never heard in my uncommercial travels, and with a coarse swing
of voice and manner anything but agreeable to his feelings, I should
conceive, considered in the light of a portrait, and as far away from the
fact as a Chinese Tartar.  There was a model pauper introduced in like
manner, who appeared to me to be the most intolerably arrogant pauper
ever relieved, and to show himself in absolute want and dire necessity of
a course of Stone Yard.  For, how did this pauper testify to his having
received the gospel of humility?  A gentleman met him in the workhouse,
and said (which I myself really thought good-natured of him), Ah, John?
I am sorry to see you here.  I am sorry to see you so poor.  Poor,
sir! replied that man, drawing himself up, I am the son of a Prince!
_My_ father is the King of Kings.  _My_ father is the Lord of Lords.
_My_ father is the ruler of all the Princes of the Earth! &c.  And this
was what all the preachers fellow-sinners might come to, if they would
embrace this blessed bookwhich I must say it did some violence to my own
feelings of reverence, to see held out at arms length at frequent
intervals and soundingly slapped, like a slow lot at a sale.  Now, could
I help asking myself the question, whether the mechanic before me, who
must detect the preacher as being wrong about the visible manner of
himself and the like of himself, and about such a noisy lip-server as
that pauper, might not, most unhappily for the usefulness of the
occasion, doubt that preachers being right about things not visible to
human senses?
