This religious _Bubble_ was certainly of _Satan_, who, as he craftily
drew them in, so like a true _Devil_ he left them in the lurch when they
came there, fac'd about to the _Saracens_, animated the immortal
_Saladin_ against them, and manag'd so dexterously that he left the
bones of about thirteen or fourteen hundred thousand Christians there as
a trophy of his infernal politicks; and after the christian world had
run _a la santa terra_, or in _English_ a _saunt'ring_, about a hundred
year, he dropt it to play another game less foolish, but ten times
wickeder than that which went before it, _namely_, turning the crusadoes
of the Christians one against another; and, as _Hudibras_ said in
another case,
  "Made them fight like mad or drunk
  "For dame religion as for punk.
Of this you have a compleat account in the history of the Popes decrees
against the Count _de Thoulouse_, and the _Waldenses_ and _Albigenses_,
with the crusadoes and massacres which follow'd upon them, wherein to do
_the Devil_'s politicks some justice, he met with all the success he
could desire; the zealots of that day executed his infernal orders most
punctually, and planted religion in those countries in a glorious and
triumphant manner, upon the destruction of an infinite number of
innocent people, whose blood has fatten'd the soil for the growth of the
Catholick faith, in a manner very particular, and to Satan's full
satisfaction.
I might, to compleat this part of his history, give you the detail of
his progress in these first steps of his alliances with _Rome_; and add
a long list of massacres, wars, and expeditions in behalf of religion,
which he has had the honour to have a visible hand in; such as the
_Parisian_ massacre, the _Flemish_ war under the Duke _d' Alva_, the
_Smithfield_ fires in the _Marian days_ in _England_, and the massacres
in _Ireland_; all which would most effectually convince us that _the
Devil_ has not been idle in his business; but I may meet with these
again in my way, 'tis enough, while I am upon the generals only, to
mention them thus in a summary way; I say, 'tis enough to prove that
_the Devil_ has really been as much concerned as any body, in the
methods taken by some people for propagating the christian religion in
the world.
Some have rashly, and I had almost said maliciously charg'd _the Devil_
with the great triumphs of his friends the _Spaniards_ in _America_, and
would place the conquest of _Mexico_ and _Peru_ to the credit of his
account.
But I cannot join with them in this at all, I must say, I believe _the
Devil_ was innocent of that matter; my reason is, because, _Satan_ was
never such a fool as to spend his time, or his politicks, or embark his
allies to conquer nations who were already his own; that would be
_Satan_ against _Beelzebub_, making war upon himself, and at least doing
nothing to the purpose.
