Thus we lost the most fortunate Ship that ever Man sail'd with; however,
making Signals of Distress to the Sloop, and by the Assistance of our own
Boat, we sav'd our Lives; and the Storm abating in the Morning, we had Time
to save many Things, particularly our Guns, and most of our Ammunition;
and, which was more than all the rest, we sav'd our Treasure: Tho' I
mention the saving our Guns first, yet they were the last Things we sav'd,
being oblig'd to break the upper Deck of the Ship up for them.
Being thus got on Shore, and having built us some Huts for our Conveniency,
we had nothing before us but a View of fixing our Habitations in the
Country; for tho' we had the Sloop, we could propose little Advantage by
her; for as to cruising for Booty among the _Arabians_ or _Indians_, we had
neither Room, for it or Inclination to it; and as for attacking any
_European_ Ship, the Sloop was in no Condition to do it, tho' we had all
been on Board; for every Body knows that all the Ships trading from
_Europe_ to the _East-Indies_, were Ships of Force, and too strong for us;
so that, in short, we had nothing in View for several Months but how to
settle ourselves here, and live as comfortably and as well as we could,
till something or other might offer for our Deliverance.
In this Condition we remain'd on Shore above eight Months, during which
Time we built us a little Town, and fortify'd it by the Direction of one of
our Gunners, who was a very good Engineer, in a very clever and regular
Manner, placing a very strong double Palisado round the Foot of our Works,
and a very large Ditch without our Palisado, and a third Palisado beyond
the Ditch, like a Counterscarp or Cover'd-way; besides this, we rais'd a
large Battery next to the Sea, with a Line of 24 Guns plac'd before it, and
thus we thought ourselves in a Condition to defend ourselves against any
Force that could attempt us in that Part of the World.
And besides all this, the Place on which our Habitation was built, being an
Island, there was no coming easily at us by Land.
But I was far from being easy in this Situation of our Affairs; so I made a
Proposal to our Men one Day, that tho' we were well enough in our
Habitation, and wanted for nothing, yet since we had a Sloop here, and a
Boat so good as she was, 'twas Pity she should lye and perish there, but we
should send her Abroad, and see what might happen; that perhaps it might be
our good Luck to surprise some Ship or other for our Turn, and so we might
all go to Sea again: The Proposal was well enough relish'd at first Word,
but the great Mischief of all was like to be this, That we should all go
together by the Ears upon the Question who should go in her: My secret
Design was laid, that I was resolv'd to go in her myself, and that she
should not go without me; but when it began to be talk'd of, I discover'd
the greatest seeming Resolution not to stir, but to stay with the rest, and
take Care of the main Chance, that was to say, the Money.
