We kept, I say, at a Distance from the Shore, to prevent giving the Alarm;
but it was a needless Caution, for the Country was all alarm'd on another
Account, _viz._ about an 130 bold Buccaneers had made their Way over Land,
not at the Isthmus of _Darien_, as usual, but from _Granada_, on the Lake
of _Nicaragua_ to the North of _Panama_, by which, tho' the Way was longer,
and the Country not so practicable as at the ordinary Passage, yet they
were unmolested, for they surpriz'd the Country; and whereas the
_Spaniards_, looking for them at the old Passage, had drawn Entrenchments,
planted Guns, and posted Men at the Passages of the Mountains, to intercept
them and cut them off, here they met with no _Spaniards_, nor any other
Obstruction in their Way, but coming to the South Sea had Time,
undiscover'd, to build themselves Canoes and Periaguas, and did a great
deal of Mischief upon the Shore, having been follow'd, among the rest, by
80 Men more, commanded by one _Guilotte_, a _Frenchman_, an old Buccaneer;
so that they were now 210 Men; and they were not long at Sea before they
took two _Spanish_ Barks going from _Guatimala_ to _Panama_, loaden with
Meal, Coco, and other Provisions; so that now they were a Fleet of two
Barks, with several Canoes, and Periaguas, but no Guns, nor any more
Ammunition than every one carry'd at first at their Backs.
However, this Troop of Desperadoes had alarm'd all the Coast, and Expresses
both by Sea and Land were dispatch'd, to warn the Towns on the Coast to be
upon their Guard, all the way from _Panama_ to _Lima_; but as they were
represented to be only such Freebooters as I have said, Ships of Strength
did not desist their Voyages, as they found Occasion, as we shall observe
presently: We were now gotten into the Latitude of 10, 11, and 12 Degrees
and a Half; but, in our overmuch Caution, had kept out so far to Sea, that
we miss'd every Thing which would otherwise have fallen into our Hands; but
we were better inform'd quickly, as you shall hear.
Early in the Morning, one of our Men being on the Missen-top, cry'd, A
Sail, a Sail; it prov'd to be a small Vessel standing just after us; and as
we understood afterwards, did so, believing that we were some of the King's
Ships looking after the Buccaneers. As we understood she was a-Stern of us,
we shorten'd Sail, and hung out the _Spanish_ Colours, separating
ourselves, to make him suppose we were cruising for the Buccaneers, and did
not look for him; however, when we saw him come forward, but stretching in
a little towards the Shore, we took Care to be so much to Starboard that he
could not escape us that Way; and when he was a little nearer, the Sloop
plainly chac'd him, and in a little Time came up with him, and took him: We
had little Goods in the Vessel, their chief Loading being Meal and Corn for
_Panama_, but the Master happen'd to have 6000 Pieces of Eight in his
Cabin, which was good Booty.
