We heard no more of them in three Days, which made us repent sorely that we
had not gone all three together; but the third Day they came back, tho'
without any Prize, as we thought, but gave us an Account that they had
chac'd a great Ship and a Bark all Night, and the next Day; that they took
the Bark the Evening before, but found little in her of Value; that the
great Ship ran on Shore among some Rocks, where they durst not go in after
her, but that manning out their Boats, they got on Shore so soon, that the
Men belonging to her durst not land; that then they threaten'd to burn the
Ship as she lay, and burn them all in her, if they did not come on Shore
and surrender: They offer'd to surrender, giving them their Liberty, which
our Men would not promise at first; but after some Parly, and arguing on
both Sides, our Men agreed thus far, that they should remain Prisoners for
so long as we were in those Seas, but that as soon as we came to the Height
of _Panama_, or if we resolv'd to return sooner, then they should be set at
Liberty; and to these hard Conditions they yielded.
Our Men found in the Ship 6 Brass Guns, 200 Sacks of Meal, some Fruit, and
the Value of 160000 Pieces of Eight in Gold of _Chili_, as good as any in
the World: It was a glittering Sight, and enough to dazzle the Eyes of
those that look'd on it, to see such a Quantity of Gold laid all of a Heap
together, and we began to embrace one another in Congratulation of our good
Fortune.
We brought the Prisoners all to the Island _Fernando_, where we used them
very well, built little Houses for them, gave them Bread, and Meat, and
every Thing they wanted; and gave them Powder and Ball to kill Goats with,
which they were fully satisfy'd with, and kill'd a great many for us too.
We continu'd to Cruise [_Feb._ 2] hereabout, but without finding any other
Prize for near three Weeks more; so we resolv'd to go up as high as _Puna_,
the Place where I had been so lucky before; and we assur'd our Prisoners,
that in about two Months we would return, and relieve them; but they chose
rather to be on Board us, so we took them all in again, and kept on with an
easy Sail, at a proper Distance from Land, that we might not be known, and
the Alarm given; for as to the Ship which we had taken, and which was
stranded among the Rocks, as we had taken all the Men out of her, the
People on the Shore, when they should find her, could think no other than
that she was driven on Shore by a Storm, and that all the People were
drown'd, or all escap'd and gone; and there was no Doubt but that the Ship
would beat to Pieces in a very few Days.
