In company with Balatta, sometimes with men and parties of women, the
freedom of the jungle was his for three quadrants of the compass.  But
the fourth quadrant, which contained the Red Ones abiding place, was
taboo.  He made more thorough love to Balattaalso saw to it that she
scrubbed herself more frequently.  Eternal female she was, capable of any
treason for the sake of love.  And, though the sight of her was
provocative of nausea and the contact of her provocative of despair,
although he could not escape her awfulness in his dream-haunted
nightmares of her, he nevertheless was aware of the cosmic verity of sex
that animated her and that made her own life of less value than the
happiness of her lover with whom she hoped to mate.  Juliet or Balatta?
Where was the intrinsic difference?  The soft and tender product of
ultra-civilization, or her bestial prototype of a hundred thousand years
before her?there was no difference.
Bassett was a scientist first, a humanist afterward.  In the jungle-heart
of Guadalcanal he put the affair to the test, as in the laboratory he
would have put to the test any chemical reaction.  He increased his
feigned ardour for the bushwoman, at the same time increasing the
imperiousness of his will of desire over her to be led to look upon the
Red One face to face.  It was the old story, he recognized, that the
woman must pay, and it occurred when the two of them, one day, were
catching the unclassified and unnamed little black fish, an inch long,
half-eel and half-scaled, rotund with salmon-golden roe, that frequented
the fresh water, and that were esteemed, raw and whole, fresh or putrid,
a perfect delicacy.  Prone in the muck of the decaying jungle-floor,
Balatta threw herself, clutching his ankles with her hands kissing his
feet and making slubbery noises that chilled his backbone up and down
again.  She begged him to kill her rather than exact this ultimate
love-payment.  She told him of the penalty of breaking the taboo of the
Red Onea week of torture, living, the details of which she yammered out
from her face in the mire until he realized that he was yet a tyro in
knowledge of the frightfulness the human was capable of wreaking on the
human.
Yet did Bassett insist on having his mans will satisfied, at the womans
risk, that he might solve the mystery of the Red Ones singing, though
she should die long and horribly and screaming.  And Balatta, being mere
woman, yielded.  She led him into the forbidden quadrant.  An abrupt
mountain, shouldering in from the north to meet a similar intrusion from
the south, tormented the stream in which they had fished into a deep and
gloomy gorge.  After a mile along the gorge, the way plunged sharply
upward until they crossed a saddle of raw limestone which attracted his
geologists eye.  Still climbing, although he paused often from sheer
physical weakness, they scaled forest-clad heights until they emerged on
a naked mesa or tableland.  Bassett recognized the stuff of its
composition as black volcanic sand, and knew that a pocket magnet could
have captured a full load of the sharply angular grains he trod upon.
