Being thus Mann'd, the Sloop rigg'd, and having clear'd her Bottom, and
laid in Provisions enough for a long Voyage, we set Sail the 3d of
_January_ 1694, for the _Cape of Good Hope_. We very honestly left our
Money, as I said, behind us, only that we had about the Value of 2000 Pound
in Pieces of Eight allow'd us on Board for any Exigence that might happen
at Sea.
We made no Stop at the _Cape_, or at St. _Helena_, tho' we pass'd in Sight
of it, but stood over to the _Caribbee_ Islands directly, and made the
Island of _Tobago_ the 18th of _February_, where we took in fresh Water,
which we stood in great Need of, as you may judge by the Length of the
Voyage. We sought no Purchase, for I had fully convinc'd our Men, that our
Business was not to appear, as we were used to be, upon the Cruise, but as
Traders; and to that End I propos'd to go away to the Bay of _Campeachy_,
and load Logwood, under the Pretence of selling of which we might go any
where.
It is true, I had another Design here, which was to recover the Money which
my Comrade and I had bury'd there; and having the Man on Board with me to
whom I had communicated my Design, we found an Opportunity to come at our
Money with Privacy enough, having so conceal'd it, as that it would have
lain there to the general Conflagration, if we had not come for it our
selves.
My next Resolution was to go for _England_, only that I had too many Men,
and did not know what to do with them: I told them we could never pretend
to go with a Sloop loaden with Logwood to any Place, with 40 Men on Board,
but we should be discover'd; but if they would resolve to put 15 or 16 Men
on Shore as private Seamen, the rest might do well enough; and if they
thought it hard to be set on Shore, I was content to be one, only that I
thought it was very reasonable that whoever went on Shore should have some
Money given them, and that all should agree to rendezvous in _England_, and
so make the best of our Way thither, and there perhaps we might get a good
Ship to go fetch off our Comrades and our Money. With this Resolution,
sixteen of our Men had three hundred Pieces of Eight a Man given them, and
they went off thus; the Sloop stood away North, thro' the Gulph of
_Florida_, keeping under the Shore of _Carolina_ and _Virginia_; so our Men
dropp'd off as if they had deserted the Ship; three of the sixteen run away
there, five more went off at Virginia, three at _New York_, three at _Road
Island_, and myself and one more at _New England_; and so the Sloop went
away for _England_ with the rest. I got all my Money on Shore with me, and
conceal'd it as well as I could; some I got Bills for, some I bought
Molosses with, and turn'd the rest into Gold; and dressing myself not as a
common Sailor, but as a Master of a Ketch, which I had lost in the Bay of
_Campeachy_, I got Passage on Board one Captain _Guillame_, a _New England_
Captain, whose Owner was one Mr. _Johnson_ a Merchant, living at _Hackney_,
near _London_.
