Even as he lay here, under the breadfruit tree, an intelligence that
stared across the starry gulfs, so must all the universe be exposed to
the ceaseless scrutiny of innumerable eyes, like his, though grantedly
different, with behind them, by the same token, intelligences that
questioned and sought the meaning and the construction of the whole.  So
reasoning, he felt his soul go forth in kinship with that august company,
that multitude whose gaze was forever upon the arras of infinity.
Who were they, what were they, those far distant and superior ones who
had bridged the sky with their gigantic, red-iridescent, heaven-singing
message?  Surely, and long since, had they, too, trod the path on which
man had so recently, by the calendar of the cosmos, set his feet.  And to
be able to send a message across the pit of space, surely they had
reached those heights to which man, in tears and travail and bloody
sweat, in darkness and confusion of many counsels, was so slowly
struggling.  And what were they on their heights?  Had they won
Brotherhood?  Or had they learned that the law of love imposed the
penalty of weakness and decay?  Was strife, life?  Was the rule of all
the universe the pitiless rule of natural selection?  And, and most
immediately and poignantly, were their far conclusions, their long-won
wisdoms, shut even then in the huge, metallic heart of the Red One,
waiting for the first earth-man to read?  Of one thing he was certain: No
drop of red dew shaken from the lion-mane of some sun in torment, was the
sounding sphere.  It was of design, not chance, and it contained the
speech and wisdom of the stars.
What engines and elements and mastered forces, what lore and mysteries
and destiny-controls, might be there!  Undoubtedly, since so much could
be enclosed in so little a thing as the foundation stone of a public
building, this enormous sphere should contain vast histories, profounds
of research achieved beyond mans wildest guesses, laws and formula that,
easily mastered, would make mans life on earth, individual and
collective, spring up from its present mire to inconceivable heights of
purity and power.  It was Times greatest gift to blindfold, insatiable,
and sky-aspiring man.  And to him, Bassett, had been vouchsafed the
lordly fortune to be the first to receive this message from mans
interstellar kin!
No white man, much less no outland man of the other bush-tribes, had
gazed upon the Red One and lived.  Such the law expounded by Ngurn to
Bassett.  There was such a thing as blood brotherhood.  Bassett, in
return, had often argued in the past.  But Ngurn had stated solemnly no.
Even the blood brotherhood was outside the favour of the Red One.  Only a
man born within the tribe could look upon the Red One and live.  But now,
his guilty secret known only to Balatta, whose fear of immolation before
the Red One fast-sealed her lips, the situation was different.  What he
had to do was to recover from the abominable fevers that weakened him,
and gain to civilization.  Then would he lead an expedition back, and,
although the entire population of Guadalcanal he destroyed, extract from
the heart of the Red One the message of the world from other worlds.
