But best of all, from the standpoint of Japan, the Chinese was a kindred
race.  The baffling enigma of the Chinese character to the West was no
baffling enigma to the Japanese.  The Japanese understood as we could
never school ourselves or hope to understand.  Their mental processes
were the same.  The Japanese thought with the same thought-symbols as did
the Chinese, and they thought in the same peculiar grooves.  Into the
Chinese mind the Japanese went on where we were balked by the obstacle of
incomprehension.  They took the turning which we could not perceive,
twisted around the obstacle, and were out of sight in the ramifications
of the Chinese mind where we could not follow.  They were brothers.  Long
ago one had borrowed the others written language, and, untold
generations before that, they had diverged from the common Mongol stock.
There had been changes, differentiations brought about by diverse
conditions and infusions of other blood; but down at the bottom of their
beings, twisted into the fibres of them, was a heritage in common, a
sameness in kind that time had not obliterated.
And so Japan took upon herself the management of China.  In the years
immediately following the war with Russia, her agents swarmed over the
Chinese Empire.  A thousand miles beyond the last mission station toiled
her engineers and spies, clad as coolies, under the guise of itinerant
merchants or proselytizing Buddhist priests, noting down the horse-power
of every waterfall, the likely sites for factories, the heights of
mountains and passes, the strategic advantages and weaknesses, the wealth
of the farming valleys, the number of bullocks in a district or the
number of labourers that could be collected by forced levies.  Never was
there such a census, and it could have been taken by no other people than
the dogged, patient, patriotic Japanese.
But in a short time secrecy was thrown to the winds.  Japans officers
reorganized the Chinese army; her drill sergeants made the mediaval
warriors over into twentieth century soldiers, accustomed to all the
modern machinery of war and with a higher average of marksmanship than
the soldiers of any Western nation.  The engineers of Japan deepened and
widened the intricate system of canals, built factories and foundries,
netted the empire with telegraphs and telephones, and inaugurated the era
of railroad-building.  It was these same protagonists of
machine-civilization that discovered the great oil deposits of Chunsan,
the iron mountains of Whang-Sing, the copper ranges of Chinchi, and they
sank the gas wells of Wow-Wee, that most marvellous reservoir of natural
gas in all the world.
In Chinas councils of empire were the Japanese emissaries.  In the ears
of the statesmen whispered the Japanese statesmen.  The political
reconstruction of the Empire was due to them.  They evicted the scholar
class, which was violently reactionary, and put into office progressive
officials.  And in every town and city of the Empire newspapers were
started.  Of course, Japanese editors ran the policy of these papers,
which policy they got direct from Tokio.  It was these papers that
educated and made progressive the great mass of the population.
