With this Resolution, and under these Measures, we set Sail from the Island
of St. _Juan Fernando_ the 23d of _September_, (being the same there as our
_March_ is here) and keeping the Coast of _Chili_ on Board, had good
Weather for about a Fortnight, [_Octob._ 14.] till we came into the
Latitude of 44 Degrees South; when finding the Wind come squally off the
Shore from among the Mountains, we were oblig'd to keep farther out at Sea,
where the Winds were less uncertain; and some Calms we met with, till about
the Middle of _October_, [16.] when the Wind springing up at N. N. W. a
pretty moderate Gale, we jogg'd S. E. and S. S. E. till we came into the
Latitude of 55 Degrees; and the 16th of _November_, found our selves in 59
Degrees, the Weather exceeding cold and severe. But the Wind holding fair,
we held in with the Land, and steering E. S. E. we held that Course till we
thought ourselves entirely clear of the Land, and enter'd into the North
Sea, or _Atlantick Ocean_; and then changing our Course, we steer'd N. and
N. N. E. but the Wind blowing still at N. N. W. a pretty stiff Gale, we
could make nothing of it till we made the Land in the Latitude of 52
Degrees; and when we came close under Shore, we found the Winds variable;
so we made still N. under the Lee of the Shore, and made the Point of St.
_Julien_ the 13th of November, having been a Year and seven Days since we
parted from thence on our Voyage Outwardbound.
Here we rested ourselves, took in fresh Water, and began to kill Seals and
Fowls of several Sorts, but especially Penguins, which this Place is noted
for; and here we stay'd, in Hopes our Fregate would arrive, but we heard no
News of her; so, at Parting, we set up a Post, with this Inscription, done
on a Plate of Lead, with our Names upon the Lead, and these Words;
   _Gone to Madagascar_, _December_ 10, 1692.
(Being in that Latitude the longest Day in the Year;) and I doubt not but
the Post may stand there still.
From hence we launch'd out into the vast _Atlantick Ocean_, steering our
Coast E. by N. and E. N. E. till we had sail'd, by our Account, about 470
Leagues, taking our Meridian Distance, or Departure, from St. _Julian_. And
here a strong Gale springing up at S. E. by E. and E. S. E. encreasing
afterwards to a violent Storm, we were forc'd by it to the Norward, as high
as the _Tropick_; not that it blew a Storm all the while, but it blew so
steady, and so very hard, for near 20 Days together, that we were carry'd
quite out of our intended Course: After we had weather'd this, we began to
recover ourselves again, making still East; and endeavouring to get to the
Southward, we had yet another hard Gale of Wind at S. and S. S. E. so
strong, that we could make nothing of it at all; whereupon it was resolv'd,
if we could, to make the Island of St. _Helena_, which in about three Weeks
more we very happily came to, on the 17th of _January_.
