The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough remember;
he would take nothing of me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin which I had in my
boat, and caused every thing I had in the ship to be punctually
delivered me; and what I was willing to sell he bought, such as the case
of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax, for I
had made candles of the rest; in a word, I made about two hundred and
twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo; and with this stock I went on
shore in the Brasils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house of a good
honest man like himself, who had an _ingeino_ as they call it; that is,
a plantation and a sugarhouse; I lived with him some time, and
acquainted myself by that means with the manner of their planting and
making of sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they
grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get license to settle there,
I would turn planter among them, resolving, in the mean time, to find
out some way to get my money, which I had left in London, remitted to
me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I
purchased as much land that was uncured as my money would reach, and
formed a plan for my plantation and settlement, and such a one as might
be suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive
from England.
I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English parents,
whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was. I call
him neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on
very sociable together. My stock was but low, as well as his: and we
rather planted for food, than any thing else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began to come into order; so
that the third year we planted some tobacco, and made each of us a large
piece of ground ready for planting canes in the year to come; but we
both wanted help; and now I found, more than before, I had done wrong in
parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no great
wonder: I had no remedy but to go on; I was gotten into an employment
quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted
in, and for which I forsook my father's house, and broke through all his
good advice; nay, I was coming into the very middle station, or upper
degree of low life, which my father advised me to before; and which if I
resolved to go on with, I might as well have staid at home, and never
have fatigued myself in the world as I had done; and I used often to say
to myself, I could have done this as well in England among my friends,
as have gone five thousand miles off to do it, among strangers and
savages in a wilderness, and at such distance, as never to hear from any
part of the world that had the least knowledge of me.
