    "I have seen this letter in which you tell me there is so much
    _galimatias_, and I assure you that I have not found any at all.  On
    the contrary, I find everything very plainly expressed, and among
    others, one which is too explicit for my satisfaction--namely, what
    you have said to Madame de Rambouillet, that if you tried to imagine
    a perfectly happy life for yourself, it would be to pass it all alone
    with Mademoiselle de Rambouillet.  You know whether any one can be
    more persuaded than I am of her merit; but I confess to you that that
    has not prevented me from being surprised that you could entertain a
    thought which did so great an injury to our friendship.  As to
    believing that you said this to one, and wrote it to the other,
    simply for the sake of paying them an agreeable compliment, I have
    too high an esteem for your courage to be able to imagine that
    complaisance would cause you thus to betray the sentiments of your
    heart, especially on a subject in which, as they were unfavorable to
    me, I think you would have the more reason for concealing them, the
    affection which I have for you being so well known to every one, and
    especially to Mademoiselle de Rambouillet, so that I doubt whether
    she will not have been more sensible of the wrong you have done me,
    than of the advantage you have given her.  The circumstance of this
    letter falling into my hands has forcibly reminded me of these lines
    of Bertaut:
    "'Malheureuse est l'ignorance
    Et plus malheureux le savoir."
    "Having through this lost a confidence which alone rendered life
    supportable to me, it is impossible for me to take the journey so
    much thought of.  For would there be any propriety in travelling
    sixty miles in this season, in order to burden you with a person so
    little suited to you, that after years of a passion without parallel,
    you cannot help thinking that the greatest pleasure of your life
    would be to pass it without her?  I return, then, into my solitude,
    to examine the defects which cause me so much unhappiness, and unless
    I can correct them, I should have less joy than confusion in seeing
    you."
It speaks strongly for the charm of Madame de Sable's nature that she was
able to retain so susceptible a friend as Mademoiselle d'Attichy in spite
of numerous other friendships, some of which, especially that with Madame
de Longueville, were far from lukewarm--in spite too of a tendency in
herself to distrust the affection of others toward her, and to wait for
advances rather than to make them.  We find many traces of this tendency
in the affectionate remonstrances addressed to her by Madame de
Longueville, now for shutting herself up from her friends, now for
doubting that her letters are acceptable.  Here is a little passage from
one of these remonstrances which indicates a trait of Madame de Sable,
and is in itself a bit of excellent sense, worthy the consideration of
lovers and friends in general: "I am very much afraid that if I leave to
you the care of letting me know when I can see you, I shall be a long
time without having that pleasure, and that nothing will incline you to
procure it me, for I have always observed a certain lukewarmness in your
friendship after our _explanations_, from which I have never seen you
thoroughly recover; and that is why I dread explanations, for however
good they may be in themselves, since they serve to reconcile people, it
must always be admitted, to their shame, that they are at least the
effect of a bad cause, and that if they remove it for a time they
_sometimes leave a certain facility in getting angry again_, which,
without diminishing friendship, renders its intercourse less agreeable.
It seems to me that I find all this in your behavior to me; so I am not
wrong in sending to know if you wish to have me to-day."  It is clear
that Madame de Sable was far from having what Sainte-Beuve calls the one
fault of Madame Necker--absolute perfection.  A certain exquisiteness in
her physical and moral nature was, as we shall see, the source of more
than one weakness, but the perception of these weaknesses, which is
indicated in Madame de Longueville's letters, heightens our idea of the
attractive qualities which notwithstanding drew from her, at the sober
age of forty, such expressions as these: "I assure you that you are the
person in all the world whom it would be most agreeable to me to see, and
there is no one whose intercourse is a ground of truer satisfaction to
me.  It is admirable that at all times, and amidst all changes, the taste
for your society remains in me; and, _if one ought to thank God for the
joys which do not tend to salvation_, I should thank him with all my
heart for having preserved that to me at a time in which he has taken
away from me all others."
