FOOTNOTES:
[32] So the Scholium interprets in this place, the word +hyperthialos+.
[33] +Linos+
[34] Clarke, who has preserved this name in his marginal version,
contends strenuously, and with great reason, that Outis ought not to be
translated, and in a passage which he quotes from the _Acta eruditorum_,
we see much fault found with Giphanius and other interpreters of Homer
for having translated it. It is certain that in Homer the word is
declined not as +outis-tinos+ which signifies no man, but as
+outis-tidos+ making +outin+ in the accusative, consequently as a proper
name. It is sufficient that the ambiguity was such as to deceive the
friends of the Cyclops. Outis is said by some (perhaps absurdly) to have
been a name given to Ulysses on account of his having larger ears than
common.
[35] Outis, as a _name_ could only denote him who bore it; but as a
_noun_, it signifies _no man_, which accounts sufficiently for the
ludicrous mistake of his brethren.
[36]
                      +propesontes+
         ------Olli certamine summo
    Procumbunt.
    VIRGIL
[37] The seeming incongruity of this line with line 560, is reconciled by
supposing that Ulysses exerted his voice, naturally loud, in an
extraordinary manner on this second occasion. See Clarke.
BOOK X
ARGUMENT
Ulysses, in pursuit of his narrative, relates his arrival at the island
of AEolus, his departure thence, and the unhappy occasion of his return
thither. The monarch of the winds dismisses him at last with much
asperity. He next tells of his arrival among the Laestrygonians, by whom
his whole fleet, together with their crews, are destroyed, his own ship
and crew excepted. Thence he is driven to the island of Circe. By her the
half of his people are transformed into swine. Assisted by Mercury, he
resists her enchantments himself, and prevails with the Goddess to
recover them to their former shape. In consequence of Circe's
instructions, after having spent a complete year in her palace, he
prepares for a voyage to the infernal regions.
    We came to the AEolian isle; there dwells
    AEolus, son of Hippotas, belov'd
    By the Immortals, in an isle afloat.
    A brazen wall impregnable on all sides
    Girds it, and smooth its rocky coast ascends.
    His children, in his own fair palace born,
    Are twelve; six daughters, and six blooming sons.
    He gave his daughters to his sons to wife;
    They with their father hold perpetual feast
    And with their royal mother, still supplied                       10
    With dainties numberless; the sounding dome
    Is fill'd with sav'ry odours all the day,
    And with their consorts chaste at night they sleep
    On stateliest couches with rich arras spread.
    Their city and their splendid courts we reach'd.
    A month complete he, friendly, at his board
    Regaled me, and enquiry made minute
    Of Ilium's fall, of the Achaian fleet,
    And of our voyage thence. I told him all.
    But now, desirous to embark again,                                20
    I ask'd dismission home, which he approved,
    And well provided for my prosp'rous course.
    He gave me, furnish'd by a bullock slay'd
    In his ninth year, a bag; ev'ry rude blast
    Which from its bottom turns the Deep, that bag
    Imprison'd held; for him Saturnian Jove
    Hath officed arbiter of all the winds,
    To rouse their force or calm them, at his will.
    He gave me them on board my bark, so bound
    With silver twine that not a breath escaped,                      30
    Then order'd gentle Zephyrus to fill
    Our sails propitious. Order vain, alas!
    So fatal proved the folly of my friends.
      Nine days continual, night and day we sail'd,
    And on the tenth my native land appear'd.
    Not far remote my Ithacans I saw
    Fires kindling on the coast; but me with toil
    Worn, and with watching, gentle sleep subdued;
    For constant I had ruled the helm, nor giv'n
    That charge to any, fearful of delay.                             40
    Then, in close conference combined, my crew
    Each other thus bespake--He carries home
    Silver and gold from AEolus received,
    Offspring of Hippotas, illustrious Chief--
    And thus a mariner the rest harangued.
      Ye Gods! what city or what land soe'er
    Ulysses visits, how is he belov'd
    By all, and honour'd! many precious spoils
    He homeward bears from Troy; but we return,
    (We who the self-same voyage have perform'd)                      50
    With empty hands. Now also he hath gain'd
    This pledge of friendship from the King of winds.
    But come--be quick--search we the bag, and learn
    What stores of gold and silver it contains.
      So he, whose mischievous advice prevailed.
    They loos'd the bag; forth issued all the winds,
    And, caught by tempests o'er the billowy waste,
    Weeping they flew, far, far from Ithaca.
    I then, awaking, in my noble mind
    Stood doubtful, whether from my vessel's side                     60
    Immersed to perish in the flood, or calm
    To endure my sorrows, and content to live.
    I calm endured them; but around my head
    Winding my mantle, lay'd me down below,
    While adverse blasts bore all my fleet again
    To the AEolian isle; then groan'd my people.
      We disembark'd and drew fresh water there,
    And my companions, at their galley's sides
    All seated, took repast; short meal we made,
    When, with an herald and a chosen friend,                         70
    I sought once more the hall of AEolus.
    Him banqueting with all his sons we found,
    And with his spouse; we ent'ring, on the floor
    Of his wide portal sat, whom they amazed
    Beheld, and of our coming thus enquired.
      Return'd? Ulysses! by what adverse Pow'r
    Repuls'd hast thou arrived? we sent thee hence
    Well-fitted forth to reach thy native isle,
    Thy palace, or what place soe'er thou would'st.
      So they--to whom, heart-broken, I replied.                      80
    My worthless crew have wrong'd me, nor alone
    My worthless crew, but sleep ill-timed, as much.
    Yet heal, O friends, my hurt; the pow'r is yours!
      So I their favour woo'd. Mute sat the sons,
    But thus their father answer'd. Hence--be gone--
    Leave this our isle, thou most obnoxious wretch
    Of all mankind. I should, myself, transgress,
    Receiving here, and giving conduct hence
    To one detested by the Gods as thou.
    Away--for hated by the Gods thou com'st.                          90
      So saying, he sent me from his palace forth,
    Groaning profound; thence, therefore, o'er the Deep
    We still proceeded sorrowful, our force
    Exhausting ceaseless at the toilsome oar,
    And, through our own imprudence, hopeless now
    Of other furth'rance to our native isle.
    Six days we navigated, day and night,
    The briny flood, and on the seventh reach'd
    The city erst by Lamus built sublime,
    Proud Laestrygonia, with the distant gates.                       100
    The herdsman, there, driving his cattle home,[38]
    Summons the shepherd with his flocks abroad.
    The sleepless there might double wages earn,
    Attending, now, the herds, now, tending sheep,
    For the night-pastures, and the pastures grazed
    By day, close border, both, the city-walls.
    To that illustrious port we came, by rocks
    Uninterrupted flank'd on either side
    Of tow'ring height, while prominent the shores
    And bold, converging at the haven's mouth                        110
    Leave narrow pass. We push'd our galleys in,
    Then moor'd them side by side; for never surge
    There lifts its head, or great or small, but clear
    We found, and motionless, the shelter'd flood.
    Myself alone, staying my bark without,
    Secured her well with hawsers to a rock
    At the land's point, then climb'd the rugged steep,
    And spying stood the country. Labours none
    Of men or oxen in the land appear'd,
    Nor aught beside saw we, but from the earth                      120
    Smoke rising; therefore of my friends I sent
    Before me two, adding an herald third,
    To learn what race of men that country fed.
    Departing, they an even track pursued
    Made by the waggons bringing timber down
    From the high mountains to the town below.
    Before the town a virgin bearing forth
    Her ew'r they met, daughter of him who ruled
    The Laestrygonian race, Antiphatas.
    Descending from the gate, she sought the fount                   130
    Artacia; for their custom was to draw
    From that pure fountain for the city's use.
    Approaching they accosted her, and ask'd
    What King reign'd there, and over whom he reign'd.
    She gave them soon to know where stood sublime
    The palace of her Sire; no sooner they
    The palace enter'd, than within they found,
    In size resembling an huge mountain-top,
    A woman, whom they shudder'd to behold.
    She forth from council summon'd quick her spouse                 140
    Antiphatas, who teeming came with thoughts
    Of carnage, and, arriving, seized at once
    A Greecian, whom, next moment, he devoured.
    With headlong terrour the surviving two
    Fled to the ships. Then sent Antiphatas
    His voice through all the town, and on all sides,
    Hearing that cry, the Laestrygonians flock'd
    Numberless, and in size resembling more
    The giants than mankind. They from the rocks
    Cast down into our fleet enormous stones,                        150
    A strong man's burthen each; dire din arose
    Of shatter'd galleys and of dying men,
    Whom spear'd like fishes to their home they bore,
    A loathsome prey. While them within the port
    They slaughter'd, I, (the faulchion at my side
    Drawn forth) cut loose the hawser of my ship,
    And all my crew enjoin'd with bosoms laid
    Prone on their oars, to fly the threaten'd woe.
    They, dreading instant death tugg'd resupine
    Together, and the galley from beneath                            160
    Those beetling[39] rocks into the open sea
    Shot gladly; but the rest all perish'd there.
      Proceeding thence, we sigh'd, and roamed the waves,
    Glad that we lived, but sorrowing for the slain.
    We came to the AEaean isle; there dwelt
    The awful Circe, Goddess amber-hair'd,
    Deep-skill'd in magic song, sister by birth
    Of the all-wise AEaetes; them the Sun,
    Bright luminary of the world, begat
    On Perse, daughter of Oceanus.                                   170
    Our vessel there, noiseless, we push'd to land
    Within a spacious haven, thither led
    By some celestial Pow'r. We disembark'd,
    And on the coast two days and nights entire
    Extended lay, worn with long toil, and each
    The victim of his heart-devouring woes.
    Then, with my spear and with my faulchion arm'd,
    I left the ship to climb with hasty steps
    An airy height, thence, hoping to espie
    Some works of man, or hear, perchance, a voice.                  180
    Exalted on a rough rock's craggy point
    I stood, and on the distant plain, beheld
    Smoke which from Circe's palace through the gloom
    Of trees and thickets rose. That smoke discern'd,
    I ponder'd next if thither I should haste,
    Seeking intelligence. Long time I mused,
    But chose at last, as my discreter course,
    To seek the sea-beach and my bark again,
    And, when my crew had eaten, to dispatch
    Before me, others, who should first enquire.                     190
    But, ere I yet had reach'd my gallant bark,
    Some God with pity viewing me alone
    In that untrodden solitude, sent forth
    An antler'd stag, full-sized, into my path.
    His woodland pastures left, he sought the stream,
    For he was thirsty, and already parch'd
    By the sun's heat. Him issuing from his haunt,
    Sheer through the back beneath his middle spine,
    I wounded, and the lance sprang forth beyond.
    Moaning he fell, and in the dust expired.                        200
    Then, treading on his breathless trunk, I pluck'd
    My weapon forth, which leaving there reclined,
    I tore away the osiers with my hands
    And fallows green, and to a fathom's length
    Twisting the gather'd twigs into a band,
    Bound fast the feet of my enormous prey,
    And, flinging him athwart my neck, repair'd
    Toward my sable bark, propp'd on my lance,
    Which now to carry shoulder'd as before
    Surpass'd my pow'r, so bulky was the load.                       210
    Arriving at the ship, there I let fall
    My burthen, and with pleasant speech and kind,
    Man after man addressing, cheer'd my crew.
      My friends! we suffer much, but shall not seek
    The shades, ere yet our destined hour arrive.
    Behold a feast! and we have wine on board--
    Pine not with needless famine! rise and eat.
      I spake; they readily obey'd, and each
    Issuing at my word abroad, beside
    The galley stood, admiring, as he lay,                           220
    The stag, for of no common bulk was he.
    At length, their eyes gratified to the full
    With that glad spectacle, they laved their hands,
    And preparation made of noble cheer.
    That day complete, till set of sun, we spent
    Feasting deliciously without restraint,
    And quaffing generous wine; but when the sun
    Went down, and darkness overshadow'd all,
    Extended, then, on Ocean's bank we lay;
    And when Aurora, daughter of the dawn,                           230
    Look'd rosy forth, convening all my crew
    To council, I arose, and thus began.
      My fellow-voyagers, however worn
    With num'rous hardships, hear! for neither West
    Know ye, nor East, where rises, or where sets
    The all-enlight'ning sun. But let us think,
    If thought perchance may profit us, of which
    Small hope I see; for when I lately climb'd
    Yon craggy rock, plainly I could discern
    The land encompass'd by the boundless Deep.                      240
    The isle is flat, and in the midst I saw
    Dun smoke ascending from an oaken bow'r.
      So I, whom hearing, they all courage lost,
    And at remembrance of Antiphatas
    The Laestrygonian, and the Cyclops' deeds,
    Ferocious feeder on the flesh of man,
    Mourn'd loud and wept, but tears could nought avail.
    Then numb'ring man by man, I parted them
    In equal portions, and assign'd a Chief
    To either band, myself to these, to those                        250
    Godlike Eurylochus. This done, we cast
    The lots into the helmet, and at once
    Forth sprang the lot of bold Eurylochus.
    He went, and with him of my people march'd
    Twenty and two, all weeping; nor ourselves
    Wept less, at separation from our friends.
    Low in a vale, but on an open spot,
    They found the splendid house of Circe, built
    With hewn and polish'd stones; compass'd she dwelt
    By lions on all sides and mountain-wolves                        260
    Tamed by herself with drugs of noxious pow'rs.
    Nor were they mischievous, but as my friends
    Approach'd, arising on their hinder feet,
    Paw'd them in blandishment, and wagg'd the tail.
    As, when from feast he rises, dogs around
    Their master fawn, accustom'd to receive
    The sop conciliatory from his hand,
    Around my people, so, those talon'd wolves
    And lions fawn'd. They, terrified, that troop
    Of savage monsters horrible beheld.                              270
    And now, before the Goddess' gates arrived,
    They heard the voice of Circe singing sweet
    Within, while, busied at the loom, she wove
    An ample web immortal, such a work
    Transparent, graceful, and of bright design
    As hands of Goddesses alone produce.
    Thus then Polites, Prince of men, the friend
    Highest in my esteem, the rest bespake.
      Ye hear the voice, comrades, of one who weaves
    An ample web within, and at her task                             280
    So sweetly chaunts that all the marble floor
    Re-echoes; human be she or divine
    I doubt, but let us call, that we may learn.
      He ceas'd; they call'd; soon issuing at the sound,
    The Goddess open'd wide her splendid gates,
    And bade them in; they, heedless, all complied,
    All save Eurylochus, who fear'd a snare.
    She, introducing them, conducted each
    To a bright throne, then gave them Pramnian wine,
    With grated cheese, pure meal, and honey new,                    290
    But medicated with her pois'nous drugs
    Their food, that in oblivion they might lose
    The wish of home. She gave them, and they drank,--
    When, smiting each with her enchanting wand,
    She shut them in her sties. In head, in voice,
    In body, and in bristles they became
    All swine, yet intellected as before,
    And at her hand were dieted alone
    With acorns, chestnuts, and the cornel-fruit,
    Food grateful ever to the grovelling swine.                      300
      Back flew Eurylochus toward the ship,
    To tell the woeful tale; struggling to speak,
    Yet speechless, there he stood, his heart transfixt
    With anguish, and his eyes deluged with tears.
    Me boding terrours occupied. At length,
    When, gazing on him, all had oft enquired,
    He thus rehearsed to us the dreadful change.
      Renown'd Ulysses! as thou bad'st, we went
    Through yonder oaks; there, bosom'd in a vale,
    But built conspicuous on a swelling knoll                        310
    With polish'd rock, we found a stately dome.
    Within, some Goddess or some woman wove
    An ample web, carolling sweet the while.
    They call'd aloud; she, issuing at the voice,
    Unfolded, soon, her splendid portals wide,
    And bade them in. Heedless they enter'd, all,
    But I remain'd, suspicious of a snare.
    Ere long the whole band vanish'd, none I saw
    Thenceforth, though, seated there, long time I watch'd.
      He ended; I my studded faulchion huge                          320
    Athwart my shoulder cast, and seized my bow,
    Then bade him lead me thither by the way
    Himself had gone; but with both hands my knees
    He clasp'd, and in wing'd accents sad exclaim'd.
      My King! ah lead me not unwilling back,
    But leave me here; for confident I judge
    That neither thou wilt bring another thence,
    Nor come thyself again. Haste--fly we swift
    With these, for we, at least, may yet escape.
      So he, to whom this answer I return'd.                         330
    Eurylochus! abiding here, eat thou
    And drink thy fill beside the sable bark;
    I go; necessity forbids my stay.
      So saying, I left the galley and the shore.
    But ere that awful vale ent'ring, I reach'd
    The palace of the sorceress, a God
    Met me, the bearer of the golden wand,
    Hermes. He seem'd a stripling in his prime,
    His cheeks cloath'd only with their earliest down,
    For youth is then most graceful; fast he lock'd                  340
    His hand in mine, and thus, familiar, spake.
      Unhappy! whither, wand'ring o'er the hills,
    Stranger to all this region, and alone,
    Go'st thou? Thy people--they within the walls
    Are shut of Circe, where as swine close-pent
    She keeps them. Comest thou to set them free?
    I tell thee, never wilt thou thence return
    Thyself, but wilt be prison'd with the rest.
    Yet hearken--I will disappoint her wiles,
    And will preserve thee. Take this precious drug;                 350
    Possessing this, enter the Goddess' house
    Boldly, for it shall save thy life from harm.
    Lo! I reveal to thee the cruel arts
    Of Circe; learn them. She will mix for thee
    A potion, and will also drug thy food
    With noxious herbs; but she shall not prevail
    By all her pow'r to change thee; for the force
    Superior of this noble plant, my gift,
    Shall baffle her. Hear still what I advise.
    When she shall smite thee with her slender rod,                  360
    With faulchion drawn and with death-threat'ning looks
    Rush on her; she will bid thee to her bed
    Affrighted; then beware. Decline not thou
    Her love, that she may both release thy friends,
    And may with kindness entertain thyself.
    But force her swear the dreaded oath of heav'n
    That she will other mischief none devise
    Against thee, lest she strip thee of thy might,
    And, quenching all thy virtue, make thee vile.
      So spake the Argicide, and from the earth                      370
    That plant extracting, placed it in my hand,
    Then taught me all its pow'rs. Black was the root,
    Milk-white the blossom; Moly is its name
    In heav'n; not easily by mortal man
    Dug forth, but all is easy to the Gods.
    Then, Hermes through the island-woods repair'd
    To heav'n, and I to Circe's dread abode,
    In gloomy musings busied as I went.
    Within the vestibule arrived, where dwelt
    The beauteous Goddess, staying there my steps,                   380
    I call'd aloud; she heard me, and at once
    Issuing, threw her splendid portals wide,
    And bade me in. I follow'd, heart-distress'd.
    Leading me by the hand to a bright throne
    With argent studs embellish'd, and beneath
    Footstool'd magnificent, she made me sit.
    Then mingling for me in a golden cup
    My bev'rage, she infused a drug, intent
    On mischief; but when I had drunk the draught
    Unchanged, she smote me with her wand, and said.                 390
      Hence--seek the sty. There wallow with thy friends.
    She spake; I drawing from beside my thigh
    My faulchion keen, with death-denouncing looks
    Rush'd on her; she with a shrill scream of fear
    Ran under my rais'd arm, seized fast my knees,
    And in wing'd accents plaintive thus began.
      Who? whence? thy city and thy birth declare.
    Amazed I see thee with that potion drench'd,
    Yet uninchanted; never man before
    Once pass'd it through his lips, and liv'd the same;             400
    But in thy breast a mind inhabits, proof
    Against all charms. Come then--I know thee well.
    Thou art Ulysses artifice-renown'd,
    Of whose arrival here in his return
    From Ilium, Hermes of the golden wand
    Was ever wont to tell me. Sheath again
    Thy sword, and let us, on my bed reclined,
    Mutual embrace, that we may trust thenceforth
    Each other, without jealousy or fear.
      The Goddess spake, to whom I thus replied.                     410
    O Circe! canst thou bid me meek become
    And gentle, who beneath thy roof detain'st
    My fellow-voyagers transform'd to swine?
    And, fearing my escape, invit'st thou me
    Into thy bed, with fraudulent pretext
    Of love, that there, enfeebling by thy arts
    My noble spirit, thou may'st make me vile?
    No--trust me--never will I share thy bed
    Till first, O Goddess, thou consent to swear
    The dread all-binding oath, that other harm                      420
    Against myself thou wilt imagine none.
      I spake. She swearing as I bade, renounced
    All evil purpose, and (her solemn oath
    Concluded) I ascended, next, her bed
    Magnificent. Meantime, four graceful nymphs
    Attended on the service of the house,
    Her menials, from the fountains sprung and groves,
    And from the sacred streams that seek the sea.
    Of these, one cast fine linen on the thrones,
    Which, next, with purple arras rich she spread;                  430
    Another placed before the gorgeous seats
    Bright tables, and set on baskets of gold.
    The third, an argent beaker fill'd with wine
    Delicious, which in golden cups she served;
    The fourth brought water, which she warm'd within
    An ample vase, and when the simm'ring flood
    Sang in the tripod, led me to a bath,
    And laved me with the pleasant stream profuse
    Pour'd o'er my neck and body, till my limbs
    Refresh'd, all sense of lassitude resign'd.                      440
    When she had bathed me, and with limpid oil
    Anointed me, and cloathed me in a vest
    And mantle, next, she led me to a throne
    Of royal state, with silver studs emboss'd,
    And footstool'd soft beneath; then came a nymph
    With golden ewer charged and silver bowl,
    Who pour'd pure water on my hands, and placed
    The polish'd board before me, which with food
    Various, selected from her present stores,
    The cat'ress spread, then, courteous, bade me eat.               450
    But me it pleas'd not; with far other thoughts
    My spirit teem'd, on vengeance more intent.
    Soon, then, as Circe mark'd me on my seat
    Fast-rooted, sullen, nor with outstretch'd hands
    Deigning to touch the banquet, she approach'd,
    And in wing'd accents suasive thus began.
      Why sits Ulysses like the Dumb, dark thoughts
    His only food? loaths he the touch of meat,
    And taste of wine? Thou fear'st, as I perceive,
    Some other snare, but idle is that fear,                         460
    For I have sworn the inviolable oath.
      She ceas'd, to whom this answer I return'd.
    How can I eat? what virtuous man and just,
    O Circe! could endure the taste of wine
    Or food, till he should see his prison'd friends
    Once more at liberty? If then thy wish
    That I should eat and drink be true, produce
    My captive people; let us meet again.
      So I; then Circe, bearing in her hand
    Her potent rod, went forth, and op'ning wide                     470
    The door, drove out my people from the sty,
    In bulk resembling brawns of the ninth year.
    They stood before me; she through all the herd
    Proceeding, with an unctuous antidote
    Anointed each, and at the wholesome touch
    All shed the swinish bristles by the drug
    Dread Circe's former magic gift, produced.
    Restored at once to manhood, they appear'd
    More vig'rous far, and sightlier than before.
    They knew me, and with grasp affectionate                        480
    Hung on my hand. Tears follow'd, but of joy,
    And with loud cries the vaulted palace rang.
    Even the awful Goddess felt, herself,
    Compassion, and, approaching me, began.
      Laertes' noble son, for wiles renown'd!
    Hence to the shore, and to thy gallant bark;
    First, hale her safe aground, then, hiding all
    Your arms and treasures in the caverns, come
    Thyself again, and hither lead thy friends.
    So spake the Goddess, and my gen'rous mind                       490
    Persuaded; thence repairing to the beach,
    I sought my ship; arrived, I found my crew
    Lamenting miserably, and their cheeks
    With tears bedewing ceaseless at her side.
    As when the calves within some village rear'd
    Behold, at eve, the herd returning home
    From fruitful meads where they have grazed their fill,
    No longer in the stalls contain'd, they rush
    With many a frisk abroad, and, blaring oft,
    With one consent, all dance their dams around,                   500
    So they, at sight of me, dissolved in tears
    Of rapt'rous joy, and each his spirit felt
    With like affections warm'd as he had reach'd
    Just then his country, and his city seen,
    Fair Ithaca, where he was born and rear'd.
    Then in wing'd accents tender thus they spake.
      Noble Ulysses! thy appearance fills
    Our soul with transports, such as we should feel
    Arrived in safety on our native shore.
    Speak--say how perish'd our unhappy friends?                     510
      So they; to whom this answer mild I gave.
    Hale we our vessel first ashore, and hide
    In caverns all our treasures and our arms,
    Then, hasting hence, follow me, and ere long
    Ye shall behold your friends, beneath the roof
    Of Circe banqueting and drinking wine
    Abundant, for no dearth attends them there.
      So I; whom all with readiness obey'd,
    All save Eurylochus; he sought alone
    To stay the rest, and, eager, interposed.                        520
      Ah whither tend we, miserable men?
    Why covet ye this evil, to go down
    To Circe's palace? she will change us all
    To lions, wolves or swine, that we may guard
    Her palace, by necessity constrain'd.
    So some were pris'ners of the Cyclops erst,
    When, led by rash Ulysses, our lost friends
    Intruded needlessly into his cave,
    And perish'd by the folly of their Chief.
      He spake, whom hearing, occupied I stood                       530
    In self-debate, whether, my faulchion keen
    Forth-drawing from beside my sturdy thigh,
    To tumble his lopp'd head into the dust,
    Although he were my kinsman in the bonds
    Of close affinity; but all my friends
    As with one voice, thus gently interposed.
      Noble Ulysses! we will leave him here
    Our vessel's guard, if such be thy command,
    But us lead thou to Circe's dread abode.
      So saying, they left the galley, and set forth                 540
    Climbing the coast; nor would Eurylochus
    Beside the hollow bark remain, but join'd
    His comrades by my dreadful menace awed.
    Meantime the Goddess, busily employ'd,
    Bathed and refresh'd my friends with limpid oil,
    And clothed them. We, arriving, found them all
    Banqueting in the palace; there they met;
    These ask'd, and those rehearsed the wond'rous tale,
    And, the recital made, all wept aloud
    Till the wide dome resounded. Then approach'd                    550
    The graceful Goddess, and address'd me thus.
      Laertes' noble son, for wiles renown'd!
    Provoke ye not each other, now, to tears.
    I am not ignorant, myself, how dread
    Have been your woes both on the fishy Deep,
    And on the land by force of hostile pow'rs.
    But come--Eat now, and drink ye wine, that so
    Your freshen'd spirit may revive, and ye
    Courageous grow again, as when ye left
    The rugged shores of Ithaca, your home.                          560
    For now, through recollection, day by day,
    Of all your pains and toils, ye are become
    Spiritless, strengthless, and the taste forget
    Of pleasure, such have been your num'rous woes.
      She spake, whose invitation kind prevail'd,
    And won us to her will. There, then, we dwelt
    The year complete, fed with delicious fare
    Day after day, and quaffing gen'rous wine.
    But when (the year fulfill'd) the circling hours
    Their course resumed, and the successive months                  570
    With all their tedious days were spent, my friends,
    Summoning me abroad, thus greeted me.
      Sir! recollect thy country, if indeed
    The fates ordain thee to revisit safe
    That country, and thy own glorious abode.
      So they; whose admonition I receiv'd
    Well-pleas'd. Then, all the day, regaled we sat
    At Circe's board with sav'ry viands rare,
    And quaffing richest wine; but when, the sun
    Declining, darkness overshadow'd all,                            580
    Then, each within the dusky palace took
    Custom'd repose, and to the Goddess' bed
    Magnificent ascending, there I urged
    My earnest suit, which gracious she receiv'd,
    And in wing'd accents earnest thus I spake.
      O Circe! let us prove thy promise true;
    Dismiss us hence. My own desires, at length,
    Tend homeward vehement, and the desires
    No less of all my friends, who with complaints
    Unheard by thee, wear my sad heart away.                         590
      So I; to whom the Goddess in return.
    Laertes' noble son, Ulysses famed
    For deepest wisdom! dwell not longer here,
    Thou and thy followers, in my abode
    Reluctant; but your next must be a course
    Far diff'rent; hence departing, ye must seek
    The dreary house of Ades and of dread
    Persephone there to consult the Seer
    Theban Tiresias, prophet blind, but blest
    With faculties which death itself hath spared.                   600
    To him alone, of all the dead, Hell's Queen
    Gives still to prophesy, while others flit
    Mere forms, the shadows of what once they were.
      She spake, and by her words dash'd from my soul
    All courage; weeping on the bed I sat,
    Reckless of life and of the light of day.
    But when, with tears and rolling to and fro
    Satiate, I felt relief, thus I replied.
      O Circe! with what guide shall I perform
    This voyage, unperform'd by living man?                          610
      I spake, to whom the Goddess quick replied.
    Brave Laertiades! let not the fear
    To want a guide distress thee. Once on board,
    Your mast erected, and your canvas white
    Unfurl'd, sit thou; the breathing North shall waft
    Thy vessel on. But when ye shall have cross'd
    The broad expanse of Ocean, and shall reach
    The oozy shore, where grow the poplar groves
    And fruitless willows wan of Proserpine,
    Push thither through the gulphy Deep thy bark,                   620
    And, landing, haste to Pluto's murky abode.
    There, into Acheron runs not alone
    Dread Pyriphlegethon, but Cocytus loud,
    From Styx derived; there also stands a rock,
    At whose broad base the roaring rivers meet.
    There, thrusting, as I bid, thy bark ashore,
    O Hero! scoop the soil, op'ning a trench
    Ell-broad on ev'ry side; then pour around
    Libation consecrate to all the dead,
    First, milk with honey mixt, then luscious wine,                 630
    Then water, sprinkling, last, meal over all.
    Next, supplicate the unsubstantial forms
    Fervently of the dead, vowing to slay,
    (Return'd to Ithaca) in thy own house,
    An heifer barren yet, fairest and best
    Of all thy herds, and to enrich the pile
    With delicacies such as please the shades;
    But, in peculiar, to Tiresias vow
    A sable ram, noblest of all thy flocks.
    When thus thou hast propitiated with pray'r                      640
    All the illustrious nations of the dead,
    Next, thou shalt sacrifice to them a ram
    And sable ewe, turning the face of each
    Right toward Erebus, and look thyself,
    Meantime, askance toward the river's course.
    Souls num'rous, soon, of the departed dead
    Will thither flock; then, strenuous urge thy friends,
    Flaying the victims which thy ruthless steel
    Hath slain, to burn them, and to sooth by pray'r
    Illustrious Pluto and dread Proserpine.                          650
    While thus is done, thou seated at the foss,
    Faulchion in hand, chace thence the airy forms
    Afar, nor suffer them to approach the blood,
    Till with Tiresias thou have first conferr'd.
    Then, glorious Chief! the Prophet shall himself
    Appear, who will instruct thee, and thy course
    Delineate, measuring from place to place
    Thy whole return athwart the fishy flood.
      While thus she spake, the golden dawn arose,
    When, putting on me my attire, the nymph                         660
    Next, cloath'd herself, and girding to her waist
    With an embroider'd zone her snowy robe
    Graceful, redundant, veil'd her beauteous head.
    Then, ranging the wide palace, I aroused
    My followers, standing at the side of each--
    Up! sleep no longer! let us quick depart,
    For thus the Goddess hath, herself, advised.
      So I, whose early summons my brave friends
    With readiness obey'd. Yet even thence
    I brought not all my crew. There was a youth,                    670
    Youngest of all my train, Elpenor; one
    Not much in estimation for desert
    In arms, nor prompt in understanding more,
    Who overcharged with wine, and covetous
    Of cooler air, high on the palace-roof
    Of Circe slept, apart from all the rest.
    Awaken'd by the clamour of his friends
    Newly arisen, he also sprang to rise,
    And in his haste, forgetful where to find
    The deep-descending stairs, plunged through the roof.            680
    With neck-bone broken from the vertebrae
    Outstretch'd he lay; his spirit sought the shades.
      Then, thus to my assembling friends I spake.
    Ye think, I doubt not, of an homeward course,
    But Circe points me to the drear abode
    Of Proserpine and Pluto, to consult
    The spirit of Tiresias, Theban seer.
      I ended, and the hearts of all alike
    Felt consternation; on the earth they sat
    Disconsolate, and plucking each his hair,                        690
    Yet profit none of all their sorrow found.
      But while we sought my galley on the beach
    With tepid tears bedewing, as we went,
    Our cheeks, meantime the Goddess to the shore
    Descending, bound within the bark a ram
    And sable ewe, passing us unperceived.
    For who hath eyes that can discern a God
    Going or coming, if he shun the view?
