He indeed having thus spoken, sat down; but Nestor, who was king of
sandy Pylus, rose up, who wisely counselling, harangued them, and said:
"O friends, generals and counsellors of the Argives, if any other of the
Greeks had told this dream, we should have pronounced it a fabrication,
and withdrawn ourselves [from the reciter]. But now he has seen it, who
boasts himself [to be] by far the greatest man in the army. But come on,
if by any means we can arm the sons of the Greeks."
Thus then having spoken, he began to depart from the assembly; and they,
the sceptre-bearing princes, arose, and obeyed the shepherd of the
tribes, and the hosts rushed forward. Even as the swarms of clustering
bees,[79] issuing ever anew from the hollow rock, go forth, and fly in
troops over the vernal[80] flowers, and some have flitted in bodies
here, and some there; thus of these [Greeks] many nations from the ships
and tents kept marching in troops in front of the steep shore to the
assembly. And in the midst of them blazed Rumour, messenger of Jove,
urging them to proceed; and they kept collecting together. The assembly
was tumultuous, and the earth groaned beneath, as the people seated
themselves, and there was a clamour; but nine heralds vociferating
restrained them, if by any means they would cease from clamour, and
hear the Jove-nurtured princes. With difficulty at length the people sat
down, and were kept to their respective[81] seats, having desisted from
their clamour, when king Agamemnon arose, holding the sceptre, which
Vulcan had laboriously wrought. Vulcan in the first place gave it to
king Jove, the son of Saturn, and Jove in turn gave it to his messenger,
the slayer of Argus.[82] But king Mercury gave it to steed-taming
Pelops, and Pelops again gave it to Atreus, shepherd of the people. But
Atreus, dying, left it to Thyestes, rich in flocks; but Thyestes again
left it to Agamemnon to be borne, that he might rule over many
islands,[83] and all Argos.[84] Leaning upon this, he spoke words
amongst the Greeks:
   [Footnote 79: The dative here implies direction, [Greek: epi]
   increasing its force, according to Stadelmann and Kuehner, who are
   followed by Anthon. I have restored the old interpretation, which
   is much less far-fetched, and is placed beyond doubt by Virgil's
   imitations.--"_per_ florea rura," AEn. i. 430; "floribus insidunt
   variis." AEn. vi. 708. "Among fresh dews and flowers, Fly to and
   fro."--Milton. P.L. i. 771.]
   [Footnote 80: _I. e._ over the flowers in the spring-time, when
   bees first appear. See Virg. l. c. Eurip. Hipp. 77, [Greek:
   melissa leimon' erinon oierchetai].--Nicias, Anthol. i. 31,
   [Greek: era phainousa melissa].--Longus, i. 4.]
   [Footnote 81: Observe the distributive use of [Greek: kata]. Cf.
   Od. iii. 7.]
   [Footnote 82: Mercury. Cf. Ovid. Met. i. 624. sqq.]
   [Footnote 83: On the extended power of Agamemnon, see Thucyd. i.
   9.]
   [Footnote 84: On this sceptre, the type of the wealth and
   influence of the house of the Atrides, see Grote. vol. i. p.
   212.]
