Being at _London_, it was but a very few Months before several of us met
again, as I have said we agreed to do. And being true to our first Design
of going back to our Comrades, we had several close Conferences about the
Manner and Figure in which we should make the Attempt, and we had some very
great Difficulties appear'd in our Way: First, to have fitted up a small
Vessel, it would be of no Service to us, but be the same Thing as the Sloop
we came in; and if we pretended to a great Ship, our Money would not hold
out; so we were quite at a Stand in our Councils what to do, or what Course
to take, till at length our Money still wasting, we grew less able to
execute any Thing we should project.
This made us all desperate; when as desperate Distempers call for desperate
Cures, I started a Proposal which pleas'd them all, and this was, that I
would endeavour among my Acquaintance, and with what Money I had left,
(which was still sixteen or seventeen hundred Pound) to get the Command of
a good Ship, bearing a quarter Part, or thereabout, myself; and so having
gat into the Ship, and got a Freight, the rest of our Gang should all enter
on Board as Seamen, and whatever Voyage we went, or wheresoever we were
bound, we would run away with the Ship and all the Goods, and so go to our
Friends as we had promis'd.
I made several Attempts of this Kind, and once bought a very good Ship,
call'd, _The Griffin_, of one _Snelgrove_ a Shipwright, and engag'd the
Persons concern'd to hold a Share in her and fit her out, on a Voyage for
_Leghorn_ and _Venice_; when it was very probable the Cargo, to be shipp'd
on Board casually by the Merchant, would be very rich; but Providence, and
the good Fortune of the Owner prevented this Bargain, for without any
Objection against me, or Discovery of my Design in the least, he told me
afterwards his Wife had an ugly Dream or two about the Ship; once, that it
was set on Fire by Lightning, and he had lost all he had in it; another
Time, that the Men had mutiny'd and conspir'd to kill him; and that his
Wife was so averse to his being concern'd in it, that it had always been an
unlucky Ship, and that therefore his Mind was chang'd; that he would sell
the whole Ship, if I would, but he would not hold any Part of it himself.
Tho' I was very much disappointed at this, yet I put a very good Face upon
it, and told him, I was very glad to hear him tell me the Particulars of
his Dissatisfaction; for if there was any Thing in Dreams, and his Wife's
Dream had any Signification at all, it seem'd to concern me (more than him)
who was to go the Voyage, and command the Ship; and whether the Ship was to
be burnt, or the Men to mutiny, tho' Part of the Loss might be his, who was
to stay on Shore, all the Danger was to be mine, who was to be at Sea in
her; and then, as he had said, she had been an unlucky Ship to him, it was
very likely she would be so to me; and therefore I thank'd him for the
Discovery, and told him I would not meddle with her.
