Miss Griffin was a model of propriety, and I am at a loss to imagine what
the feelings of the virtuous woman would have been, if she had known,
when she paraded us down the Hampstead Road two and two, that she was
walking with a stately step at the head of Polygamy and Mahomedanism.  I
believe that a mysterious and terrible joy with which the contemplation
of Miss Griffin, in this unconscious state, inspired us, and a grim sense
prevalent among us that there was a dreadful power in our knowledge of
what Miss Griffin (who knew all things that could be learnt out of book)
didnt know, were the main-spring of the preservation of our secret.  It
was wonderfully kept, but was once upon the verge of self-betrayal.  The
danger and escape occurred upon a Sunday.  We were all ten ranged in a
conspicuous part of the gallery at church, with Miss Griffin at our
headas we were every Sundayadvertising the establishment in an
unsecular sort of waywhen the description of Solomon in his domestic
glory happened to be read.  The moment that monarch was thus referred to,
conscience whispered me, Thou, too, Haroun!  The officiating minister
had a cast in his eye, and it assisted conscience by giving him the
appearance of reading personally at me.  A crimson blush, attended by a
fearful perspiration, suffused my features.  The Grand Vizier became more
dead than alive, and the whole Seraglio reddened as if the sunset of
Bagdad shone direct upon their lovely faces.  At this portentous time the
awful Griffin rose, and balefully surveyed the children of Islam.  My own
impression was, that Church and State had entered into a conspiracy with
Miss Griffin to expose us, and that we should all be put into white
sheets, and exhibited in the centre aisle.  But, so Westerlyif I may be
allowed the expression as opposite to Eastern associationswas Miss
Griffins sense of rectitude, that she merely suspected Apples, and we
were saved.
I have called the Seraglio, united.  Upon the question, solely, whether
the Commander of the Faithful durst exercise a right of kissing in that
sanctuary of the palace, were its peerless inmates divided.  Zobeide
asserted a counter-right in the Favourite to scratch, and the fair
Circassian put her face, for refuge, into a green baize bag, originally
designed for books.  On the other hand, a young antelope of transcendent
beauty from the fruitful plains of Camden Town (whence she had been
brought, by traders, in the half-yearly caravan that crossed the
intermediate desert after the holidays), held more liberal opinions, but
stipulated for limiting the benefit of them to that dog, and son of a
dog, the Grand Vizierwho had no rights, and was not in question.  At
length, the difficulty was compromised by the installation of a very
youthful slave as Deputy.  She, raised upon a stool, officially received
upon her cheeks the salutes intended by the gracious Haroun for other
Sultanas, and was privately rewarded from the coffers of the Ladies of
the Hareem.
