An angel, and kill a priest! An angel who did not know how to do wrong,
and yet destroys in cold blood hundreds of helpless poor men and women
who had never done him any harm! It made us sick to see that awful
deed, and to think that none of those poor creatures was prepared
except the priest, for none of them had ever heard a mass or seen a
church. And we were witnesses; we had seen these murders done and it
was our duty to tell, and let the law take its course.
But he went on talking right along, and worked his enchantments upon us
again with that fatal music of his voice. He made us forget everything;
we could only listen to him, and love him, and be his slaves, to do
with us as he would. He made us drunk with the joy of being with him,
and of looking into the heaven of his eyes, and of feeling the ecstasy
that thrilled along our veins from the touch of his hand.
CHAPTER III
The Stranger had seen everything, he had been everywhere, he knew
everything, and he forgot nothing. What another must study, he learned
at a glance; there were no difficulties for him. And he made things
live before you when he told about them. He saw the world made; he saw
Adam created; he saw Samson surge against the pillars and bring the
temple down in ruins about him; he saw Casars death; he told of the
daily life in heaven; he had seen the damned writhing in the red waves
of hell; and he made us see all these things, and it was as if we were
on the spot and looking at them with our own eyes. And we felt them,
too, but there was no sign that they were anything to him beyond mere
entertainments. Those visions of hell, those poor babes and women and
girls and lads and men shrieking and supplicating in anguish--why, we
could hardly bear it, but he was as bland about it as if it had been so
many imitation rats in an artificial fire.
And always when he was talking about men and women here on the earth
and their doings--even their grandest and sublimest--we were secretly
ashamed, for his manner showed that to him they and their doings were
of paltry poor consequence; often you would think he was talking about
flies, if you didnt know. Once he even said, in so many words, that
our people down here were quite interesting to him, notwithstanding
they were so dull and ignorant and trivial and conceited, and so
diseased and rickety, and such a shabby, poor, worthless lot all
around. He said it in a quite matter-of-course way and without
bitterness, just as a person might talk about bricks or manure or any
other thing that was of no consequence and hadnt feelings. I could see
he meant no offense, but in my thoughts I set it down as not very good
manners.
